we don't get got
we go get
so
yo
hey
what's going on everybody good morning
good afternoon good evening no matter
where you're coming from hope you all
are doing well welcome back
another week
another day another dollar
what's going on everybody
welcome welcome welcome hope everyone's
doing well i hope everyone had a
wonderful weekend what a what a what a
what a good weekend too i mean we we
kicked off with uh
an alumni twitter space
3000 people have tuned into it already
over 3000 now it's pretty wild because
the recordings up right and then uh
we had our office hours on sunday we got
some reviewing we got to to answer some
questions
good weekend what's going on
all right you know how we do we like
folks to get in here give them a second
they're running home from work to get in
here a couple things that we always like
to do at the beginning one we got a
question of the day folks
question of the day
is would you
rather would you rather
paint a wall
with your face
or with your knees
whole wall normal we're talking like a
normal
like
a normal
bedroom wall
i always love seeing how split it is i
always love see how split it is
this one this one's like 50 50. i say
like half of people are saying face
about the other half we're saying knees
i don't know i feel like
i feel like there is any precision work
involved my face might be better i don't
know i think i can i feel like i can do
i can do this with my forehead all day
right whereas my knees i don't know i
feel like my knees might
after a while you can't you can't hit
all the crevices
right i don't know i feel like i feel
like my forehead can put it my forehead
can put this on work right i feel like i
can uh i can use my core a little bit
more i don't know if i can keep bending
my knees like that all day
i'm gonna go with i'm gonna go a face i
would rather paint a wall with my face
than my knees
oh boy well we're in for a good one
today folks uh a topic that i love
dearly which is responsiveness making
our sites look great across devices we
hinted at it on thursday's class and
tonight we're going to go deeper into it
we're going to talk about how things
how our sites can be made responsive so
they look great across devices how we
can look good on mobile desktop laptop
tablet and everything in between we're
going to talk about the big three when
it comes to responsiveness fluidity
elasticity and content decisions we're
going to get some practice in and then
this and next class is just all about
responsiveness building responsive
websites and then on thursday
we got a lot of practice to get into
with responsive sites so super excited
tonight we're also going to do our first
steps into talking about how to network
i love talking about this it's the thing
that's going to help you get a job and
so we're going to spend a big chunk of
maybe the first hour tonight talking
about how to network how to find people
to network how to do it properly and
then on thursday
on thursday i'm going to give you like
actual scripts like i'm going to give
you like the text you can send i'm going
to give you the paragraphs you can send
so we're going to talk about it in
theory tonight and then on thursday i'm
going to give you like the actual things
i would send to people because a lot of
folks sometimes get really nervously i
don't want to say i don't know how to
send it i'm going to give it to y'all
folks don't have to worry about it i got
you
got you we don't get caught we go get
all right folks
um
let me bring up the slides we always
like to start off with questions right
all these thoughtful questions it
started to start our days off give us a
second to get in here what questions you
got for me folks
bangers only exactly
whoo
got my lovely
got my lovely uh cold brew today
that's what i'm drinking my lovely cold
brew i'm doing good i'm doing real good
did i get a chance to play a new pokemon
game yet
didn't get a chance in there
people were real set up there was no
motivation today
i didn't put a motivational poem or
video in there
and people people were people had some
words
we'll bring them back on thursday
when we start the job search once we get
through javascript and we're feeling
comfortable we'll start laying the
groundwork for the job search but we
don't really take the job search
seriously until we're full stack
software engineers until we're full
stack web developers right we we want to
have the front end and the back end to
open us up to as much possibility but
actually that's a great question to ask
because the groundwork for you getting a
job starts tonight
right the groundwork for you getting a
job honestly starts tonight
the things that we do to build our
network are the things are going to help
you get a job
right
so it's a really interesting question
like we won't take it seriously until
much further but actually it kind of
starts tonight
are we actually assigned to watch
independence day yes that is your
homework your homework is to watch
independence day it will have a lot of
strong bearing right
strong bearing on our next couple of
classes and so you must watch
independence day you have to it's the
homework
plenty of places to find independence
day to watch online for free
the movie yes exactly
it'll make sense trust me you just gotta
watch it
i
i didn't see who said it but that was
the right question the the the movie or
the crap version uh there is only one
independence day they did not make a
sequel they did not make another one it
does not exist so of course will smith
independence day only independence day
there just doesn't exist another version
so yeah
what if we know it by heart already go
back and watch it again
the classic
they made a sequel exactly exactly you
feeling me i see you
do you have any trouble drinking or
sleeping after cold brew uh no
i could drink coffee uh 20 minutes
before i go to bed and it will have no
bearing on my sleep because i take
serious medication to help me fall
asleep i'm bipolar so i take my bipolar
medication and that that zonks me i i
could literally
i don't know i could do anything and it
just
there's just no staying up
i just get zonked so yeah there's there
it doesn't matter what i do throughout
the day
and i've been keeping really good track
of like my quality of sleep um i wear
like that watch i showed the other day
so i can see like if i'm waking up or
not and there's there's nothing that
impacts it that medication boop i'm out
yeah
i i i actually like i love like i'm on
seroquel i love seroquel it's like
literally changed my life it stops me
from having manic episodes helps me
sleep i don't have it my life is in
shambles so as much as it is a is a hard
hard drug to get used to i really did
change my life um but the first couple
times i took it i remember the first
time i took it and then we're going to
start with class i promise once one
story then we'll get started with class
the very first time i took it
i was with my family
um
i was with my family to go see thomas
the tank engine and there was like a
real train that had a thomas the tank
engine on the front and my um my cousins
like were really in the thomas tank
engine so like the whole family went and
there's gonna be this big ass train with
thomas the tank on the front and it's
like a whole thing to do and i just
remember i took it the night before and
i'm just sitting there like this
i'm like sitting like on the i'm like
sitting on
the bench just like tongue out
like i'm probably drooling on myself i
just was not there i was just out i was
out
and i was like i didn't even know i was
doing it
uh so yeah that was my first experience
of circle but your body gets used to it
after a while and uh yeah it changed my
life
i wouldn't be able to do anything that i
honestly am able to do
if i wasn't on like a regular bipolar
medication so for all the folks out
there that are that are bipolar and
they're worried about like the taking
new meds like with your doctor's
approval give them a chance i went
through three or four different
medications until i found what worked
and then the one that did work
felt like death for the first week but
after that
it's good it's good
all right
let's get into it folks tonight
we got
how to network part one
right this is part one of like four
classes we'll have where networking
comes up right so the first part starts
tonight we're gonna talk high level
right
what to do how to do it why it's
important none of it's really a
requirement until we get into next week
so i don't want you to run out and think
you have to start networking this week
that's okay you don't have to we're
going to start talking about tonight and
then on thursday i'm going to give you
every example that i have what's the
email i send what's the linkedin message
i send what are the twitter messages i
send right i don't want you to like
guess what that looks like i'm going to
give it all to you right i'm going to
review some of our cs fundamentals
including specificity and the box model
we're gonna review some of the floating
examples that we actually went over on
sunday as well uh we're going to review
those three simple layouts we did two of
them on sunday but we're gonna do one
tonight just as some some space
repetition
we're gonna
talk about the basics of responsiveness
like fluidity elasticity content
decisions and how we can build sites
that incorporate those ideas and then
the last thing at the very end
we're going to cover a little bit of
flexbox so i want to show you we've been
dealing with floats we're going to float
some more tonight your homework even
going into next week will be with floats
but i want to show you the magic that is
flexbox
and how it can really just change your
life once you kind of get past floats
right and so we're going to talk about
flexbox tonight i'm going to show you
one example and why it's so powerful and
then as we get into like next week we'll
start using it more
alrighty
already got through some questions
remember folks uh please check in
you can do exclamation point check in
here in chat but that's going to get
spammed out to wazoo
it's always on the discord follow along
materials channel and the
lyrically on live so you always have
that link before class or if you just
already follow me on twitter i'll tweet
it always an hour before class starts
so you can always go ahead and check in
i appreciate it helps folks find the
community
and not have to pay so much to learn how
to code
the other thing is today is the last day
for the study community survey we
released a survey last week asking folks
to fill in their preferences for study
communities
after tonight myself and the mods are
going to work very very hard to get all
those communities live on discord to get
all the voice channels set up all the
individual channels set up and so uh
tonight is the last night uh for you to
fill out that form if there's a
community that you would like to belong
to uh please make sure you fill out that
form so we can build out the community
starting today and then we're gonna
start adding folks to them as soon as
possible
alrighty
i wanted to start off with the big
congratulations i've known about it for
a little while uh but they officially
just put into the the celebrations
channel so i'm putting them on blast
here a little bit
uh huge congrats to occ
uh they go by old coderchick on twitch
they are an illustrious member of the
hundred dev stream team
they're a mod extraordinaire and they
just announced that they are now
employed as a full-time software
engineer and so they put the link into
the celebrations channel highly
recommend checking out the celebration
challenge while there's all these folks
getting jobs and now it was jennifer's
a turn and so super happy for them
congratulations
this is huge and the message that they
shared that's on the screen right now i
want you to read i'm not going to read
it through because it's here but i think
there's a little bit something for
everyone in this message
a lot of folks that have concerns um
about things that they think might hold
them back in the job search uh jennifer
went through it through them a lot and a
lot and all of them and so to see them
be so successful and to to lock it down
and to see their journey has been just
absolutely amazing to watch and so
definitely show them some love in the
celebrations channel i put the direct
link to their to their message but uh
shout out to you occ congratulations
all right
submitting homework
there's none due today
so uh don't you don't have to stress
some people were panicking where do i
submit stuff uh there's nothing that was
due today and so there's nothing to
submit uh you'll have stuff that starts
getting somebody on thursday and next
week we're gonna have a lot of homework
i have a lot of homework
all right
next thing
um
we are
well first let's start off with a huge
thank you
uh for all the all the folks that are
new uh all the things that get
like all the subs and bits that gets put
as a donation to the nonprofit i work at
during the day called resilient coders
and last year we donated thousands of
dollars
and i wanted to kind of be very
transparent about this process because
we're getting into some territory that's
like very very serious money um
when i told you all last class that if
you have amazon prime
you actually get a free sub
uh you can spend all of jeff bezos's
money uh it's actually just completely
free if you have amazon prime well you
all kind of went wild and uh
we're over we're at 2200
subs
2200 subs now twitch gets half of that
but that's that's a lot of money going
straight into
our
emergency fund at resilient coders
to help with mental health support
to help with folks that run into
emergencies throughout the cohort and i
i'd like i'm just besides i just want to
say thank you from the top of my heart
from the bottom of my heart any part in
the heart in between
i really do appreciate everyone for
doing it now i want to start releasing a
transparency report every quarter that
shows you like how much came in and that
i actually made
those donations uh last year we made the
donations and once he got into real
money i was like wait i gotta pause i
gotta make sure that i'm doing it right
uh so when my taxes get filed i'll
release that first transparency report
with kind of all the money that came in
um what we had to withhold for taxes and
then like what what went to rc and then
my goal is to do that quarterly right so
every quarter um we'll go ahead and
release that as well and so
we just want to make sure that folks
know that like eventually like we'll
release all that stuff and like i'll
share it with you all because it's
getting real
but i gotta make sure i'm doing it right
and i gotta make sure that like i'm not
double paying on taxes or weird stuff
like that and so uh once that all gets
filed i'll release the first big one and
then the goal should be every quarter
will release like a new updated one so
once again
huge huge thank you um
never ever ever ever please i'm gonna
get big here for a second never ever
ever feel like that you must sub or that
you have to sub or something that i even
want you to do it's honestly not i want
this to be a completely free experience
for everyone none of my content will
ever be behind a pay wall nothing i will
ever do will
cost you something in any way shape or
form in terms of money uh and so don't
ever feel like you have to do that a lot
of folks feel like that they want to
support specifically when i start uh
support rc and so they do choose to sub
and i appreciate you for doing that
folks that use the amazon prime which is
completely free like thank you i
appreciate that we're putting it to good
use and so i want to say a huge thank
you
um
i want to say a huge thank you
um it's kind of getting a little
overwhelmed right now some people are
throwing them in here thank you for the
five gifted subs i couldn't see who did
it um
but thank you so much everyone i really
really really appreciate it cool
let's put out there
alrighty
now
we have grown
from
a humble 5 000 folks on discord
to i believe the last one looked 23 000.
uh 23 000 people
are on that discord now
and uh i said it before
i'm gonna say it again
please
before you write anything here on twitch
before you write anything on discord ask
yourself one very important thing
is that the most helpful
the most supportive the the the the most
pleasant thing you can type in that
moment and if the answer is no do not
type it
i have no patients
or folks that can't be decent i will not
lose sleep over banning you
i just don't care if you can't be a good
human being
please leave and if being kind
uh if being decent giving people the
benefit of the doubt um understanding
that folks come in with things that they
don't know things that they're not going
to know perfectly well or that they're
going to need help and they might need
help on the same topic 10 different
times leave
i don't want you here i don't care that
you're here please just leave and i'm
very serious about this right like if
you can't be decent
please leave uh if you're if you're if
you're here to find a significant other
you're in the wrong place if you're here
to find someone to date you're in the
wrong place if you're here to find love
you're probably in the wrong place
unless you love your friends a lot right
so please
cut it out
not necessary does not need to be here
um this is a place to learn this is the
place to get stuff done
and if you can't be nice
you will be banned
drock you long
thank you so much for the five gifted
subs
i appreciate you
all right cool so i send my piece and
i'm gonna keep saying it again uh
because some people don't get it um and
one thing you have to understand
is that everyone might not have
your expert taste in let's say memes
right you might you might have the the
freshest taste in memes
but your memes might be hurtful to
others uh so please
make sure before you share anything
whether it's a meme whether it's a gif
whether it is a piece of text that
you're holding yourself to would this
make an a comfortable environment for
everyone that sees it if it's not a
comfortable environment for every single
person that will see what you're posting
please don't post it
right and if you don't know the gray
areas then you should probably just
stick to the help channels
right if you if you don't know how to
how to how to regulate in that area
that's fine
just don't post just stop
this goal is for us to have a safe
comfortable learning environment for all
and if you can't commit to that type of
environment
get the [__] out please just leave
please please please please
return to the z a thank you for the 10
gift itself that's wild
all right i've said my piece now
sometimes
you're going to
maybe
not live up to the the things i've just
asked you to live up to
and you will be banned and if you are
banned we actually now have an unbanned
process
uh in chat here you can do exclamation
point on band that'll give you the link
uh but the link is always just the bitly
slash 100 devs unban
okay
you can submit an unban request and
myself and the moderators will review
them hopefully every week
sometimes we might be busy it might take
us more than a week but the idea is that
it will happen and we will review review
why you were banned we'll tell you more
about why you were banned if you request
it
and then we can make a final decision as
to whether or not you're welcome back in
the community
there are some things that folks get
banned for that might be out of their
control right
sometimes people like clicked on those
nitro links
please do not click on free nitro links
they're they're just not they're just
not real no one's giving you free nitro
please stop clicking those links
and it's not even just on our server you
click on those links right
you click on those links and another
server they have your account right and
so then once they have your account they
will go ahead and start spamming in
every server that you're on so some
folks have gotten banned because of spam
right we don't want them to not
participate in the community we want
them to be able to get unbanned and so
here's the unbanned request to do that
all right
don't get got exactly
so if you were banned and you would like
to appeal your ban this is the link to
do it uh myself and the moderators will
review them uh weekly and uh hopefully
weekly and get back to you uh you will
always get communicated via email
so we won't dm you we won't message you
here on twitch
moderators will never reach out to you
on discord or twitch it'll always come
through email
it'll be bans at 100devs.org that you'll
see the the email come from and we're
only going to communicate with you
through email
uh please
do not reach out to individual
moderators to get unbanned
no individual moderator or even myself
will unban you
it always goes to our committee of
moderators who will review it and then
unban you
if you
reach out to individual moderators you
reach out to me
and you ask to be unbanned you're going
to get a
very scripted message from all of us and
that scripted message will say
please fill out this form right please
fill out this form if you continue to
message individual moderators or myself
the ban will stand and then we're just
going to block you entirely
okay
so
please
you can't be a decent human being don't
join the server don't type anything if
you do get banned here's the process to
get unbanned
all right and please understand that
myself
individual moderators are not going to
unban you it has to go through this form
and we'll go to our committee we'll
review it and then we will unban you
this being said
we've only had to ban very very few
people
like
we're talking like a handful right
that's the beauty of this community is
that we have amazing people in this
community
that are doing amazing things and it's
only been a handful of bands so far um
so i really really appreciate you all
creating a space where folks feel
comfortable uh where folks can come to
get work done where they can learn and
grow together and that doesn't happen
with me it doesn't happen with the mods
it happens with y'all right you are
creating that space and so thank you
thank you thank you
oh boy
now we got all that out the way
uh
let's talk about networking folks
let's talk about some networking
now
here's something that you will have
heard from me
that i will say
time and time again
just applying to jobs
will not get you a job i say again
applying to jobs
will not get you a job
wait a minute what did he say
applying to jobs won't get me a job yes
that is correct
just clicking apply or even filling out
a normal application will not get you a
job
there are some folks online that you see
some folks that have talked to me leon
i've applied to 400 places i haven't
gotten a single interview let alone a
job and my response to you is that
you've messed up
clicking apply
does not get you a job
if you click apply that is worse
than printing out your resume
all right if you if you're going to
click apply
might as well print out your resume
crumble it up
and throw it out the window
right
might as well throw it uh you might as
well go ahead crumble it up and throw it
out the window and here's why
here's why
when you throw your
resume out the window
right when you throw your resume out the
window
there's a chance
that an eagle flies by
right there is a chance that an eagle
flies by
when that eagle flies by
right they pick up the resume that you
threw out the window and they're pissed
you're like they're you're a littering
person right they're pissed that eagle's
piss eagle picks up
that that that resume and flies to the
local police station and the eagle drops
the the resume into that officer's lap
right and the officer thanks the trained
eagle right the officer thanks the
trained eagle
right
for bringing this litter
and they open it up and they see that
it's your resume
and so they get in their police car they
come to your house
right and they they they arrest you for
littering
and while they're arresting you
they they see that you have
html up on the screen and they go oh
you write code my cousin works at such
and such place and they write code um
you know what
we're gonna spare you this time
and uh we're not gonna arrest you
anymore but you're gonna you're gonna
meet with my cousin that writes code
and uh the the police officer gives you
the cousin's phone number because
they've been trying to hire right and so
you talk to that cousin
and that cousin
uh says hey we saw that you wrote good
html my my cousin saw it when they were
arresting you uh we would love to give
you an interview right second chances
right you got caught by the the litter
carrying eagle we want to give you a
second chance uh and come interview with
us and then you interview and then you
get the job
that whole story
is way more likely to happen than you
getting a job by clicking apply
it's a legit story folks
and it's way way way more believable
um way more believable
than uh you clicking apply
and getting a job
okay
that that that's way way more believable
let that sink in for a second i'm gonna
i'm just gonna let it you know let that
linger for a second
way way way more believable okay so
with that being said
the thing
that will get you a job
is your network and so
what we're going to ask you to start
doing next week is to start your
networking
and i think there's a lot of
i don't know there's a lot of anxiety
around networking there's a lot of
things that people maybe people just
haven't done it before they maybe they
haven't built the professional network
before we're going to talk about all
that stuff we're going to make sure that
you feel comfortable networking that you
find the things that work for you and
that you can do it at an appropriate
pace
no matter who you are or kind of um
barring some serious concerns uh you can
find something that works for you
right uh folks that have extreme anxiety
there's things that might be more that
work might work better for you the folks
that um aren't really extroverted there
might be things that work for you and so
we're going to talk about a lot of them
tonight and places that you need to
start exploring but the one thing i need
you to do is to start exploring right
start figuring out what does and doesn't
work for you so that you can do this
networking okay
now
here is
what happens with networking starting
next week i need you
to
connect with three individuals that are
already in tech
okay three new individuals that are
and i need you to have two coffee chats
with individuals that are already in
tech
okay
so the idea here is that you're gonna
meet three people that are already in
tech they don't necessarily have to be
software engineers although that is the
goal but people that are already in tech
project managers designers people that
work at companies that would employ
software engineers right
you need to find three and connect with
three of them each week
then you wanna have two more
right
two more
all right two more that you sit down and
have a longer form conversation with
now why do i ask you to do this
so when we look at the boot camp that i
run during the day called resilient
coders it's actually more than this we
asked folks to find five people
right
five people
and then
three coffee chats let that sink in the
students that do my boot camp during the
day they have five a week plus three
coffee chats now the reason why
this is important and why we have them
do five a week and three coffee chats
it's because by the time they're done
the 20 week program they have over a
hundred people that have met them that
know them and could eventually be a
referral for them
right
you need to do the same
thing this is where every other boot
camp [__] up
this is where every other tutorial that
has tried to teach you how to code [__]
up
they like to pretend that the coding or
the skills is the thing that gets you
jobs it is absolutely not every every
coding tutorial
every boot camp right
should be
20 weeks of how to build your network
and at the very end they should say go
do free code camper the odin project
every single tutorial that's what it
should be
networking for 20 weeks and then go do
free code camp or or the odin project
that's what it should be
right
and so
if
for some reason the gifted subs aren't
coming through
sorry i see folks are doing gifts itself
but i'm just not seeing them come up on
my um screen i think they're
uh behind a little bit so i apologize if
you give gifts to subs i appreciate to
get the subs i just i just can't see
them coming at the second
right that's it
right
that's what it should be
and so
what i
hope for you
is that after tonight
it's a little less scary
right it's a little less scary
and it's a little bit
more clear
how you're actually going to do this
because i see a lot of you some people
are saying uh i live in the middle of
nowhere all right i got you uh i i'm
introverted i got you i have anxiety i
got you we're gonna talk about all of
this stuff tonight so that you can start
chipping away at those i'm gonna say i
don't like to say it but keeping with
those excuses right
some folks have some real real things
that will get in the way of the
networking but i don't live somewhere uh
i'm introverted i i have like
mild anxiety not really like like
nothing real but like a lot of anxiety
right if you have anxiety that you can
still overcome
because some people don't right but if
you have the privilege of not having
cripplings crippling anxiety if you have
the privilege of connecting to the
internet uh you have the means to meet
with folks around the world right
you have the right now
is the best time ever
right the best time ever to network in
the history of networking there has
never ever
ever
ever been a better time than right now
right i don't care where you're from how
you do or what you do it right
this is the best time there has ever
been the network everything is remote
everything is remote if you live in the
middle of nowhere guess what you can
network with the best of them right and
so this this right now
is the best time in the history of time
to network
and so we got to use that to our
advantage we have to use that to our
advantage right
my students back in the day and by back
in the day i mean like a year or two ago
when they wanted to network they would
go to a meet-up they would have to leave
the classroom they'd have to get on the
subway they would have to go all the way
to meet up they would get to that
meet-up there'd be two people there they
would go [__] and then they would get
back walk back to the to the subway get
back on the subway go to a different
meetup get there there was five people
at that one but they already knew all
them they go [__] and then they get back
on the subway they go to a different
meetup right
you don't have to do that anymore
everything's remote right now if you
don't like where you're at
close your eyes
if you don't like the meetup that you're
at click x get out go to the next one it
will literally
never
ever
be better
to network than it is right now now
let me say this again
networking can be a very scary thing for
a lot of folks
there are tips strategies tools
techniques we're going to talk about
over the next couple of classes that'll
hopefully be helpful
when i'm giving this advice
i am not talking to the people
that
are going to need
serious kind of outside help right there
are some of us that don't have the
privilege of
being able to do this properly some
folks really do have crippling anxiety
that stops them from networking some
folks really do
have things mental health things that
might stop them from doing this part of
the process so all the advice i'm giving
to you right now is is not targeted
directly at those individuals if that's
where you are the thing i have to say to
you and the thing that that has helped
most of my students is you have to get a
game plan together with a therapist and
a psychologist right this is coming from
someone that that has bipolar disorder
that has impacted my life to the point
where i couldn't do networking the only
thing that got me out of that hole was
therapy and a great psychiatrist right
and so
i want to put that on the table right i
want to put that on the table because
i'm going to say a lot of things that i
just don't want to have to exclude those
individuals but if that's what you're
facing you have to work through it it
really is that important right now will
there ever be
somebody that doesn't have to do this
networking process yes there are ways if
you clicked apply there are things that
can tip the odds in your favor right but
what i'm talking about is a process that
is going to tip the scales
more in your favor than it is just
clicking apply so if you know
that you are working with a therapist
you're working with a psychiatrist to
get over the things that would stop you
from networking that's fine these next
couple things we're going to talk about
over the next couple classes they aren't
for you you have to find strategies
working with those the mental health
professionals that will enable you to
apply and get over that hurdle okay
so to put that preface but if we do have
the privilege of not struggling with
those things this is for you
okay um i ask that if you do kind of
struggle with these things we have the
mental health channel and i will do a
session i think just for folks that are
in that camp that'll talk through the
things that i had to do to
hopefully help me get over my mental
health hurdles to to be able to start
networking
and i think we'll do like a smaller
session that's not like public on twitch
to help kind of address some of those
concerns but
barring that issue right this is for
you now
the other thing i'll say is that i would
say probably the bulk of you think you
can't do this right and barring the
things that we just talked about you can
you might not like it
right you might not like it
you might kind of hate it at first
um but you can do it
right you can do it
uh and the cool thing is we're gonna do
it together
and when you go to a lot of these
meetups in these places uh there's gonna
be a lot of 100 devs folks there
i have to be really careful the things
that i share for you to do because
what's going to wind up happening is
there's going to be a thousand of us at
those things
but i have had students
that
you would think had every barrier
against them that found the strategies
that worked for them to help them the
network and what i'm going to say i'm
going to say it from the mountaintops
the thing that gets you a job is the
networking
right
it is not the learning to code it is not
the getting the best at javascript it's
this right here
individuals that do this better will get
more jobs than the folks that can code
twice is better twice as good
all right
a lot of caveats throughout there
but i'm excited to talk about this stuff
so starting next week you owe me three
connections and two coffee chats at
first the coffee chats and the
connections they can be the same people
but as we get further in and we kind of
ease into this right we ease into this
right
as we ease into it uh you are going to
eventually have three connections and
two coffee chats that are separate but
we start next week you're not starting
this week we start next week you're
gonna have all week to try this and the
first week's not gonna matter
i just want you to try so next week
you're gonna try right you're gonna try
you're gonna get used to it and we're
gonna build it up right you're gonna get
better you're gonna get better you're
gonna get better and it's something that
is a muscle just like learning the code
is the muscle that we had to get this
networking thing is something that we
have to get better at and something you
get better at over time
your first couple networking sessions
are going to be awkward as hell you're
going to be nervous you're going to be
anxious you're not going to know what to
say
um but
you're going to get better at
okay
all right let's talk a bit more about
this
people really stress out over the
networking but what the heck do i mean
by networking
the goal of networking
right the goal of networking is to turn
a stranger
into a co-worker but the first step in
that is turning a stranger into a friend
right
right the goal of networking is to turn
a stranger
into a friend
and so this is the the steps that it
should go through
you meet a stranger
they become an acquaintance and then
they become a friend
when someone is a friend
right which someone is a friend they
will most likely give you a referral and
that referral can be used to get an
interview or to get some perks during
the interview process and eventually
that friend can become a co-worker now
here's the thing
this process can take a short amount of
time to take a long amount of time but
that's the goal the goal of networking
is to make friends there's nothing more
to it than making
friends
now the reason why it's important for us
to make friends and to get referrals is
because
most companies
if you get referred you get some magical
things that happen
when you get referred to a job
often you'll skip a first round
interview
when you get referred to a job often you
might go right to a technical right you
might go right to whatever that first
round is you might skip
right
now the other thing that's really
interesting right now is that a lot of
companies pay referral bonuses
so they'll pay engineers i've seen
anywhere from like a couple thousand
dollars to 20 plus thousand dollars per
referral
so if a company
is paying their engineers 20 000 per
referral
and you can't get a referral that kind
of says a lot and so this idea of
referrals is really dominant right now
in tech
these referrals mean a lot internally it
gets your resume to the top of the stack
it gets you an actual interview and once
you have a referral there's like another
step two is that you can have a champion
if someone's your friend and they
actually really want to refer you
they're going to make sure that you get
the interview
a lot of these jobs will have hundreds
of people that apply and they don't even
ever get don't even get somebody to look
right they don't even get someone to
look at their resume right that company
gets hundreds of applications and then
the people that they wind up
interviewing are the folks that just had
referrals anyway
right so the idea here
daddy yankee says my referral bonus is
5k
exactly right um
daddy yankee was uh nick from our
alumni chat on friday right so if if
they're paying nick 5k
and you can't get a referral from nick
then there's something there's something
going on there right and so we want to
build our network to get a bunch of
folks in our corner that will eventually
give us a referral because that referral
does so much for you it skips rounds of
interviews and it gets your application
actually seen right so that's why the
referrals are so powerful so
when you're doing this networking the
goal is to meet a stranger
turn that stranger into an acquaintance
and then ultimately a friend and then
when the time is right you can go back
to that friend and say hey i see that
you work at chow now can you give me a
referral
right
now here's where people do it wrong
right now
nick just said
that they have a referral bonus
they said on friday to message them and
what people do is this they go blah i'm
going to reach out to nick
yo yo yo i need a referral
like they just they just in mass they
just vomit sorry i don't like i said i
stopped saying it and they they got they
they they just they just blast nick with
messages right they just blasting with
messages there's there's no there's no
rhyme or reason to it it's all about
them
right it's all about them
right it's all about them right they
don't care about nick they want the
referral they want nick to to give them
the referral they just don't care
they don't take the time to get to know
them and make them a friend so is nick
going to ever refer you the person that
just randomly adds them on twitter the
person that just randomly adds them on
linkedin are they ever go are they ever
ever going to get the referral from them
no
are they eventually going to have
hundreds of people reaching out to them
yes
so
the the thing here that the other thing
too i hate the most
is linkedin
some of you go on linkedin and they're
like every single every single person
that you ever see on linkedin you add
right you just add you add them to
linkedin you're just doing this all day
yes yes yes oh yes just linkedin
linkedin linkedin linkedin linkedin
linkedin linkedin right and then what
you wind up with is yeah
you have a thousand people that you're
connected with on linkedin but none of
them know you none of them care about
you and none of them would give you a
referral
you're better off purging your entire
linkedin and only having people that
you've actually met and interact with
if you haven't met and interact with
that person
linkedin is is not the move like it's
just you're just
you're just you're just clicking
and it's never going to get you the
referral
because people don't care about you
right
so you're doing it wrong
and so
when people say leon i've applied to 400
places my question to them is always who
did you talk to at those 400 places and
the answer is always no one
so that means you never got a referral
and your resume never made it to the
person that could actually care about it
so stop spamming people right stop
spamming them adding them on on linkedin
when you've never interacted with them
they're never going to do anything for
you
right they're not going to do anything
for you and now you just have a what
could be an amazing tool of the people
you know and interact with is now wasted
on connections that aren't real
right
and so just be careful
with these tools right the whole goal of
networking is to make friends if you're
not making friends you're doing the
networking piece wrong because the end
of the day we want to have people that
we can rely on that know you that can
give you referrals or can connect you
with the right people at certain
companies
is that the same as twitter yes if
you're using twitter for networking and
you're just like
mass adding people that you've never
even like liked one of their tweets
i don't know that doesn't seem really
helpful to me
i think twitter is definitely different
because like you're you want to like
it's not it's not just networking right
it's like
it's like connecting and like seeing
other posts and stuff like that but
linkedin is very much about like getting
a job so your linkedin should be
manicured it should be perfect
right it should be like your real
network
all right
so now you're like leon you're telling
me
that i need to make friends
right
leon
friends
make friends
how how do you make these friends
right well
we're going to talk about how to make
friends
uh we're going to talk about how to make
friends and we're going to talk about
how do you like talk to people
i i know for some folks it can seem
silly but i guarantee you it's not for
most folks most folks
aren't comfortable making friends and
most folks might not know how to start
these conversations that's okay if
that's the camp that you're in i got you
all right
and so
the place i always recommend folks to
start with this
is how to win friends and english people
if there is one book that has changed my
life more than any other book
it is this book here how to win friends
and influence people
okay
now
how to win friends and influence people
is a collection of ideas
and stories that will lead you to be
able to make friends and have meaningful
interactions with others
you can find the book online for free
very easily
and there's also lots of summaries of
all the key points what i've linked to
here is a summary of all the of all the
key points so i recommend reading the
book because there's more to it that you
don't get in the summaries that help the
the idea stick
but this is where you start that's the
foundation if you say to yourself leon i
don't know how to talk to people i don't
know how to make friends
great i was in the same place this is
how you do it it's this book
so
start there
and then once you start there
you have to practice it this is where
most folks
this is where most folks stop remember
they were talking about trough of sorrow
this is where it's where it comes in
right
hey zeus so dejesus is one of the best
people i've ever seen on this topic
and they just said that that book helped
me a lot so dejesus has a wonderful blog
post that i've linked to you all before
don't seek mentors seek friends right
like um
they're they're well versed on this
topic and they're telling you right now
this book helped them a lot so start
here if you don't know how to make
friends you don't know how to carry
conversations start with this book
i'm going to start synthesizing some of
the things from that book into our next
couple lectures
on um
on how to how to win friends and
influence people but how to network so
you're gonna simply start seeing me fuse
some of this in there but this is where
you start
cool
so now you're like all right leon i have
to turn strangers
into friends
got it
i don't know how to make friends but i'm
gonna read this book
got it
how do i meet the people
that are strangers
so i can turn them
into friends
got you all right
got you
one of the best ways
to turn strangers into friends where you
don't have to do anything at all you
don't do anything other than show up
right
you don't do anything other than show up
is to go to
meetups or events
and specifically events that reoccur
right that happen once a month
right and so here's what happens
if you were to go to a meet-up
once a month
by month three
you are seeing the same people
right you've seen the same people over
and over again
right over and over again
and just the idea of having seen that
person
three times in a row that person is now
an acquaintance
if all you ever did was say hey i'm leon
nice to meet you bob and then the next
two times you say hey bob hey bob guess
what you're an acquaintance
[Music]
right get you some
all right you did it that's all you have
to do introduce yourself to someone and
then say hello to them two more times
and they're an acquaintance they will
recognize you maybe not the first one at
least the second time they'll recognize
you
and one of the things in the how to win
friends and influence people is this
this term that you'll actually hear
everywhere now it's that the the word
that sounds the sweetest in any language
is that person's name
right
so just by
acknowledging them saying hello with
their name
three times in a row
they now now you're an acquaintance at
least right
you keep showing up those acquaintances
it will naturally grow if you just be
are intentional of saying hello what
someone's name you can move from from
from from
kind of that stranger to acquaintance
very quickly now
these events
most of them are virtual right now right
and so you're saying leon how do i how
do i get that rapport going if it's
virtual well a lot of these virtual
meetups have breakout sessions right
where you will kind of like hear like a
little bit of a talk and then they'll
put you on a breakout session with other
people
right so you can still get that
you can still get that rapport building
you can still go from that stranger to
acquaintance even if you're going to all
virtual events it will still happen cool
the other thing too is that
for most folks
being local is a competitive advantage
now if you live in the middle of nowhere
or you live in a country that does not
have a tech scene uh this advice is
is true but you're going to work a
little bit differently at the at this
part right
so
meetups are wonderful
local meetups are even better
okay
now the beautiful thing right now this
being the best time ever to network ever
is that if it's remote
there's nothing stopping you from
networking in that area
what is
the closest
city
with the most jobs
think about that
what is the closest city with the most
jobs if you are in the middle of nowhere
how close are you to chicago how like
what like where where are you close
enough to
that has tech jobs guess what
that's where you're gonna network
that's it
that is where you're gonna network a lot
of these meetups are still remote
so since the remote pick a city
and start networking even if you're four
or five hours away even if you're a
whole country away pick one city to
focus on right pick one city to focus on
and start going to all the virtual
meetups there
right like i said this is the best time
ever to start the networking and so you
can find
um
meetups that are remote
local will always be a competitive
advantage
if you can
can get in good
with
a local area and you can meet all the
people in that area and you do this
networking every week right by the end
right at the at the end of a hundred
at the end of a hundred devs you're
gonna have like a hundred people that
you've networked in that area
the odds of those hundred people knowing
the person
that you are interviewing with is pretty
high
right
right it's pretty high if you put in
this work now when it comes time to
start interviewing that 100 that you
spent time on
it 10x's it's really a thousand that you
can be connected to and interact with
right it's not just
right it's not just the people that you
networked with if you made if you turn
them from a stranger into an
acquaintance or friend you now have
their friends that you can be connected
to
right and so it it 10 x's at least
the more you put into it so being local
is a competitive advantage picking one
place to networking can be a competitive
advantage even if you don't live in that
area pick somewhere first right even if
you know leon i want to be remote pick a
place to start practicing with right
pick a place
even if you want to be remote pick a
place
right won't this process be overwhelming
yes
this is a very overwhelming process at
first but here's the thing
you get better at it it gets easier the
first couple meetups you go to are going
to probably not go really well if you're
not like a naturally like talkative
person
right
but it does get i promise you i've seen
hundreds of my students go to their
first networking events kind of just
stand in the corner and go home but
eventually you get better at it you get
a little bit more comfortable with it
you practice it and the beautiful thing
is if you're going remote
you could be middle of a conversation
right you could be middle of a
conversation hey my name is leon how you
doing
i i uh
and they'll never see you again
they'll just never see you again
right
that's the beauty of being remote
if it
you could be mid-sentence you could be
mid-sense and if you feel uncomfortable
click x get out of there who cares this
is the best time ever to try networking
right best time ever to try networking
cool so i like to start off with meetups
i'm going to cover this topic just one
for a few more seconds then we're going
to take a break
i like to start with meetups
particularly local meetups and
meetup.com is an amazing site to find
these meetups but every city has their
own
has their own job like their own boards
that where these events get posted
right and so meetup.com is an amazing
place to find meetups but there are so
many other places that you can find them
um so in boston
like here's something that we we share
with our folks in boston these are all
the places that we could go in boston to
find events we got the guide to boston
boston tech and startup events the
epicenter community
different universities calendars right
like there's uh
tech ladies like she geeks out there are
all these places that we can go to to
find events that are
just not um
they're not just meetup.com and so one
of your first things you have to do
is when you pick your
like locale
you gotta find all the places that the
events get posted to
in that locale
right and one of the things you might do
at your first couple meetups is saying
hey like i really like this meetup what
other meetups do you go to like what
other ones are like your favorites and
then you find even more right so at
first i'm going to look like there's a
handful there's a couple but then
eventually you start to find like oh
there are all these other ones that
aren't just necessarily on meetup.com
the other ones that people can start
inviting you to and so it grows
but even if you want to be remote pick a
location
start local find local meetups even if
they're like they're probably going to
be remote right now right and you start
there that's the first place that i
recommend they start finding people that
you can turn from strangers into friends
the idea behind the local events or the
recurring events is that it's very easy
to go from stranger to acquaintance when
you know you're going to see the same
person over and over again all right
let's stop here with the top of the hour
we're going to take a break
when we come back from the break we're
going to start talking about other
things that aren't necessarily events
where you can find people to turn from
strangers into friends all right folks
if you're new around here we like to
take breaks the top of the hour we're
here to be we're here to be healthy to
be in this for the long haul
the five minutes on the clock here
alrighty folks
enjoy the five minutes
hydrate
get some babies
and i'll see you all in five
um
leon we made friends while you're gone
love it
well they were just like spamming where
they're from i love it
should we have business cards for
in-person events ah that's up to you
people still carry them
we just ask for people's emails
all right folks about 20 seconds left
some people are asking about like a
bunch of different places and apps and
stuff like that we're gonna get there
we're gonna talk about a lot of all the
other places too so
we'll get there in a second
all right folks come on back come on
back hope you had a good break
alrighty folks
cool
let's jump back into it welcome back
come on back come on back
is it okay if it's any tech event for
example if it's event talking about
python yeah i go i go to all of them i
go to a bunch of different events
um it's whatever i'm interested in right
i think like i've like gave talks at
like certain meetups like the css meetup
and stuff like that in boston uh so i
have like the ones i like to go to
regularly um
but yeah i think in the beginning more
is better because you'll find you'll
find like they're like not every
meetup's the same
some really suck like people that show
up to them just aren't the best or like
they're too small or they're too big
like you're gonna you're gonna find your
recurring ones right and your recurring
meetups are different for every person
and you kind of just have to throw
yourself into them in the beginning you
know
do you have a tip on how you cope when
you feel overwhelmed um i think in the
beginning it's just giving yourself like
time right
when when i say these events like some
people want to run out and do like 100
events
don't
be selective in the beginning take some
time get get get into it exactly breathe
like find your footing like this is not
something that you're going to get
perfect next week this is something that
you're going to do for the entire cohort
to get better at this right so don't
think that people come out the gate hot
and are really good at networking
they don't it takes a while and it takes
a while to be yourself it takes a while
to get comfortable right
what if there are no meet-ups in your
country pick a city doesn't it doesn't
have to be your country the beautiful
thing about being a remote pick a
different city a city that you might
want to work in remotely even
yeah find your groove exactly you'll
find your groove and it takes a little
while right give yourself we always say
give yourself a little bit of grace
right and you'll find your groove and
and it'll it'll get easier time but you
can't use it as an excuse not to start
it's the only way that you do get to the
point where you're comfortable where you
do get to the point where you can make
friends where you get to the point to
where it actually has a meaningful
impact on your career is if you start
yeah
cool all right so we talked about like
events particularly like local events
meetup groups events that are recurring
these are often the best for my students
just because it really does have that
built-in mechanism to go from like
stranger to acquaintance very quickly so
that's why i like the recurring events
remember meetup.com is a great place to
start but often the cities that you're
targeting will have
dozens of other boards or other places
where they share events and you got to
seek them out you got to give it a good
old google you're the old 100 devs try
and start finding these locations
all right the next big thing is
conferences
the reason why i really like conferences
is
because
they bring together large amounts of
people
and the people that show up the
conferences
want to network like most of the time
people are showing up to conferences
because they want to meet other people
that are interested in the thing that
they're interested in right and so the
beautiful thing about going to a
conference is i've made so many friends
by going to conferences because we're
all there because we care about one
topic and we're all kind of more open to
meeting new folks and so for me
conferences have hands down in the
number one place that i've made friends
in tech right
conferences are hands down the number
one place i've made friends in tech
i go to a lot of conferences each year
that's kind of chilled a little bit
during the pandemic but conference has
always been the biggest for me
and the way that i find conferences are
you just you put in your interest right
and then the word conference after in
google right you can literally put
javascript conference and you'll see
some stuff that pops up um you could
even tie it closer to like where you are
like javascript conference boston and
things will come up right and so you try
to find like a bunch of these
conferences there are listings online of
like all the biggest conferences as well
and so you could find all of them
under devscon soon maybe i don't know
let's see i think let's talk about it
right
but these conferences are great uh and
here's here's some some things about
conferences um a lot of them are free
a lot of them are not
but almost always there is a way to get
into a conference for free i hate
recommending things that are not free
and so when i say conferences even the
most expensive conferences there's
typically a way in where you don't have
to pay any money and it might actually
work out better for you and so what i'll
often do is if there's a conference that
costs a lot
send them an email hey i would really
like to attend this conference uh i'm a
newer i'm an entry level software
engineer
and i'm broke as a joke right i'm broke
as a joke
is there any way that i i could get into
the conference at a discounted cost or
potentially for free
right
95 of the time they're gonna give you a
weigh-in
right like 95 percent of the time
they're gonna give you a weigh-in
right
um i i see some people saying like sneak
in i think i think sneaking in like i
mean do you right but there are often
ways to like do it legitimately that'll
get you in the door like 95 of the time
and so send them a message hey like i
have no money like is there a way for me
to attend this conference and they'll
typically say yes like 95 percent of
time they'll say yes the thing that has
helped me the most and i actually have
my shirt on today um is volunteering uh
i volunteer every year
at two or three conferences like without
skipping a beat like every year
pandemic has stopped this obviously but
two to three conferences every single
year i volunteer at
when you volunteer you often like have
to like do one thing and then you get to
spend the rest of the time at the
conference right like um i volunteer at
the free software foundation conference
every year um and typically like you can
you can schedule like to to be in charge
of like
one thing that you'll miss like one talk
but then the rest of the time you can do
whatever the heck you want uh you get a
free t-shirt right like and you get to
meet all the other volunteers so like
it's like it's automatically like a
little group of people if you don't know
anyone
right if you don't know anyone that you
immediately are now like oh here are
like the other folks that are
volunteering and so you immediately have
like this small group of friends already
that are at the uh at the conference so
i volunteer at libre planet every year
it's my one of my favorite conferences
to go to it's a free software uh
conference and free meaning that like
like open source things like that not
like free money um
and so the the place that i've made like
i have like
very like
i would say one of my closest friends
are from volunteering at conferences uh
i use when i volunteer at libra plan i
love to do the the the gift shop like
where you can come and like buy t-shirts
and hats and stuff like that and
literally one of my best friends right
now is someone that i volunteered with
a bunch of times at that gift shop where
we would just sit there and shoot the
[__] for hours um
just us because people were like in
talks or something like that and so
volunteering is a great way to get into
these conferences for free to meet a
small group of folks and um and to
to to like get that ball rolling but the
beautiful thing about conferences is
that it does bring a bunch of people
together that are
interested in one topic and often are
really open to meeting new folks
one of the things i always tell folks if
you're going to go to a conference never
ever eat alone also another really great
book
but don't ever eat alone
right
if you are going to go to lunch
and you see a group of people hey are
you going to lunch do you mind if i tag
along right
sometimes they'll have like
discord channels or
like an irc channel beforehand and i'll
be i'll just type in there hey i'm going
to go get lunch at one o'clock anybody
want to join me for lunch and somebody
will always say yes right we'll always
say yes and so it takes a little bit
more
effort to like
to to reach out
hey
slum dog i wonder i hope i want some dog
just donated 25 bucks uh thank you for
the donation first of all and if you're
the slumdog that i think that's on
twitch congratulations
uh on your job yeah congrats thank you
for the donation
and congrats on the job is that you
and jen thank you for the hydration
cool
so don't ever read alone um it's just an
easy way to connect with folks
and that like you you share a meal with
someone that goes from stranger to
acquaintance very quickly so yes it does
take a little bit of
a little bit of
your your extroverted juice to like tag
onto a group or to put yourself out
there in that way um but there are a lot
of ways
that you can maybe meet up with those
groups and good conferences actually
have like
channels specifically for like meeting
up to eat with people so conferences
great place to meet people volunteer
figure a way to get in for free and um
never eat alone it'll be super easy to
meet a lot of folks if you do those
things
and like i said your first one kind of
sucks you kind of feel awkward you don't
really know what to do
right
but you can figure it out and the cool
thing is if you're going to conferences
now
i bet you there are some other 100 devs
folks that are going to conferences
and so we have an event channel
that will open up
a little bit more as we get further
along in the course
uh rock bottom hey thank you for the
five gifted subs um we'll open up that
adventure channel more as we get deeper
into the course but i guarantee if
you're going to conferences there will
be other 100 devs folks there that you
can say hello to that forms your first
little group and then you can bring in
other folks to your group right and so
um when there are big conferences coming
up we'll share them on discord so that
you can know to like meet up with folks
that are already there so that way
you'll always have like your first
little bit of friends um and then you
meet others the biggest bit of advice i
have ever given to folks that feel
uncomfortable
networking at meetups or conferences is
to don't don't do it alone always have a
buddy
right have a buddy and so when my
students go to meet-ups or they go to
conferences they bring a buddy
don't bring lots of don't don't go in
groups because if you're a big group
people are going to feel
like they just won't approach you but if
it's just you and somebody else you can
walk up to any other person and you
become a group of three and you both
network with that person
and so
as the big conferences come up we'll
open threads for like buddy groups and
stuff like that
but yeah
cool
the other big thing is community groups
and this is where folks that might not
like going to conferences or meetups can
really shine uh by community groups i
often mean like local meetups or
text channels so discord slack irc
there is often groups that you can join
that might only be completely like text
based and so if you have a hard time
meeting folks like face to face and
talking
these text-based arenas might be for you
and so i i think
de jesus was here earlier they're like
the best person i've ever seen at this
right they they they
just were on discord all the time in
other discord communities where they
they labeled themselves i forget exactly
what it was it was like um still here
what was your name again nick it was
like
i forget what you called it like
impatient developer or something like
that
terrible developer
[Laughter]
their their name and discord communities
was terrible developer
and they just put that out there and
people would like actually help them and
they would giggle when they saw their
name right so they got people started to
recognize them just because of their
name that they were always posting right
and then after a year i got better and
the community promoted you to
inconvenient developers so yeah the
community kind of rallied around this
idea that somebody labeled themselves
teller world developer uh then they gave
them inconvenient
developer right and so these
text communities can be just as equally
beneficial as like face-to-face
communities you build a rapport with
people they get to know you they see you
consistently and so find a community
group that works for you right our
discord is a great source of community
because we're all going through it
together but if you're networking you're
going to need something else that's not
just us right
and so there are tons of like discords
that you can meet in tons of slack
channels tons of
other text-based communities and then
even just like local communities that
you can join uh in boston we have a
chapter of a civic hacking group
it's called what's the the main um
code
some code for america yeah code for
america and then code for america has
chapters in pretty much every single
city right
and so
you can join a local chapter of code for
america and that's a group of people
that come together just to build and
hack on stuff they're technically kind
of like volunteering but it's like a
group people that come together to like
build so it's not even just like
traditional like networking but there
are places where you can come and write
code and get to see the same people week
after week writing code together and
those are often the best because not
only do they know you but they also know
your coding ability right and so
look for community groups there are also
like interests or affinity groups too
one of the big ones is tequila for folks
that are latinx there are so many
communities that if you identify a
certain way then you could join those
communities too and you got to start
seeking these out now
you got to be seeking out your meet-ups
you got to be seeking out your
conferences you got to be seeking out
your community groups so you can start
kind of having multiple angles
to attack meetups are going to dry up
conferences are going to drop community
groups are going to dry up you got to do
all of these things to kind of
constantly build that that that way of
reaching out and connecting with people
and you're going to find one
that you enjoy more than others and that
might become your group that you go back
to where you really make those friends
those deeper connections and it's about
putting yourself out there into all
these different angles to find what
works for you personally like what like
what clicks in your brain and what gives
you the best fruit right
cool
community groups
and then there are apps
i don't know where this image comes from
but when i search for apps this is the
photo that comes up
right uh there are apps and i'm i gotta
be careful what apps we we share
uh because we're gonna take them all
down so i i
i put big ones here but there are so
many other apps that can help you
network as well but these two are like
the bigger ones and so i feel
comfortable putting those but maybe not
the smaller ones right
and so the apps like lunch club or
bumble biz
are ways that you can just like swipe
through and meet people
i haven't had too much success with them
but some of my students really this is
like their main way of meeting people
and so if conferences aren't working out
local meetups aren't working out
community groups aren't working out also
try the apps right maybe that's a little
bit less pressure for you
maybe it's a little bit easier to meet
folks and the other thing i'll put is
like just be careful um some people are
on bumble biz not to make like
colleagues but other things so my
general disclaimer don't be creepy and
be careful folks that are creepy on
these platforms
but apps can also be another great way
for you to meet people
and then the one of the last ones here
right one of the last ones here
is
is to
talk to your friends and family
and let them know that you're a software
engineer
once you tell friends and family that
you're a software engineer you'll be
surprised of like who your friends and
family connect you to
right you'll be surprised you never know
like who they know and so once they know
they might share it with others
a lot of your freelancing stuff when we
get there will come from friends and
family and so the more you let folks
know hey this is what i do this is how i
do it and i'm looking to meet other
folks uh you'll you'll you'll probably
start to hear other folks too that
they're somebody's friend or brother or
cousin or something and then those
connections can be really really strong
right if there's somebody that connects
you with somebody else that can be
really strong
and this this counts for folks that you
networked in too right so once somebody
goes from stranger to friend you could
say hey bob i really enjoyed getting to
know you
you seem really connected in the tech
space is there anybody else i should
talk to
and i had a student before that whenever
they had a coffee chat they
they ended every single coffee chat with
who should i talk to
right who should i talk to and every
week they got their next coffee chat by
asking the one the week before who's the
next person i should talk to and can you
connect me
right
and so you can do that too right like
once you kind of put in that work to get
the um
the connection you keep moving
juggling biohazard says how do we get
over the feeling of being disingenuous
or manipulative
it's only manipulative if you're not
actually trying to make friends
if you actually go into this honestly
like wanting to make friends and get to
know people
then there's nothing disingenuous about
that like yeah your goal is to like
build a network so you can you can like
get more jobs right
but
like daisy said like be genuine yeah
like actually care about the person
you're talking to
provide value right
like provide value i think that's one of
the things that people get wrong with
networking so much and some of the
things we're going to talk about on
thursday um there's too much to cover in
just one class right and so on thursday
we're going to talk about like how do
you like actually talk to these people
like what are the leon show me the
messages that you're sending show me the
conversations that you're having because
i i've never done this before i need to
see what you're talking about we're
going to do that on thursday right
but be genuine
right what do we do with our hands be
genuine care about other people provide
somebody value right if you talk to
someone and your goal is to make friends
actually listen like if you were if you
had a coffee chat with me this week
right
there's like a 99 chance that
it's gonna come up that i did not play
the new pokemon game you're like hey
like how are you doing how was your week
how was your weekend like typically when
you start off a conversation with
somebody you say hello hey how's your
day been how'd your weekend been going i
would have said hey i was too busy i
didn't get to play my the new pokemon
game that came out i was really looking
forward to it right
if you wanted to provide me value after
that call and show me that you were
listening show me that you were um
like engaged i would expect an email
saying hey leon i really appreciate you
taking the time to talk to me today i
learned like i just had so much fun like
engaging with you have you seen this
article about the new pokemon game
that's it
you provided the smallest a bit of value
just by linking me an article and that
in my brain right makes me think
positively about you so there are these
things that you can do in these talks
and there are things that we can do
after the conversations that get people
to go from stranger to friends
right
so
let's talk about that process
alrighty
you meet someone
right you meet them at an event a
conference a local community group
right
you meet someone
the next day you should send them an
email
in that email
right
you need to provide some sort of value
and that value should indicate to them
that you were actually like engaged in
that conversation
hey bob
it was amazing to meet you
i really enjoyed our talk about rubix
cubes
did you see
that the competitive speed cube is now
less than 10
on amazon i it blew my mind i had no
idea
right i had no idea that it could be
that cheap to get into rubik's cubing
thank you for for letting me know
like thank you for like [__] thank you
for bringing up rubik's cubing again i'm
going to order one and get into it right
so that just provided a little bit of
value i showed them that they can get a
new rubik's cube for under 10
and it shows that i now have an interest
in a passion of theirs right it really
is just that simple
sam said if i had two hours a day
to commit to furthering my career 30 of
those 30 minutes of those would be
networking 100 agree right so you meet
them next day you follow up with an
email provide the smallest amount of
value it can be linking an article could
be linking something that that tied into
a passion right
three days later
add them on linkedin
alright three days later add them on
linkedin
hey we met at the such-and-such meetup a
week ago or three days ago a couple days
ago don't say three days that sounds
weird
hey we met up uh we met at the meetup a
couple days ago i really enjoyed talking
to you i had a lot of fun i would love
just to stay in touch so i'm adding you
here on linkedin hopefully i see you at
the next meetup
right
now notice i didn't just add them on
linkedin what did i do
i didn't just add them on linkedin what
did i do
i sent them a message
for the love of all that is holy
everybody right now
right hands up please
right hands up
in the air please yes you you're not
putting your hand put your hand up if
you're able please
okay
repeat after me
i promise
you say you say i promise
to never
add someone on linkedin ever again
without also sending a message
or say one more time for the folks in
back
i promise
to never add someone on linkedin again
without also including a message
all right well we all promised
if you ever add me on linkedin
let's just get real here for a second
uh if you i don't i don't accept people
on linkedin until they graduate just by
the way
um but if you ever add me on linkedin
and there's not a message
i'm blocking you and i'm banning you
from everything you're gonna be banned
on twitch
you're gonna be banned on on discord uh
your anything that i i'm gonna block you
on twitter
right
any any way that i can i can never see
you again i'm gonna figure out a way to
do it
all right
you're gonna you're gonna submit your
ban appeal and it's gonna be a
all right
my camera did not like the
putting the hand up there we go all
right we're back
cool
we've all agreed we've all signed the
sacred oath to never send a linkedin
message uh say send a linkedin ad
without a message ever again
cool
i'm gonna ban you on vine exactly
what if we sent the request a month ago
you're all you're right
all right then
six days on the sixth day right on the
sixth day you add them on twitter
all right so you met someone the next
day you sent them an email that provided
some value
on the third day you added them on
linkedin with a message reminding them
where you met them and thanking them
again for their time
and then on the sixth day
you added them on twitter
what are we doing right here folks
what are we doing to these people's
brains
right now
yeah
we're stalking no it's not stalking it's
networking okay
we're doing spaced repetition
we're doing space repetition on them
remembering who you are
right and we're doing it with enough
space in between that it's not weird
it's networking
right
we provided value we provided
appreciation it's not weird as
networking right and we just spaced
repetition the brains into remembering
who you are so the next time you go to
that meetup you're no longer a stranger
what are you
you're no longer a stranger what are you
you're at least an acquaintance
you're at least an acquaintance how good
are you are at this process maybe you're
a friend right but you're at least an
acquaintance
right you're leasing acquaintance so in
in one meet up you can turn quite a few
folks from strangers to acquaintances
just by following this pattern
now if you're like leon
i don't know what email to send
leon i don't know what linkedin message
to send ah i don't know how to add them
on twitter i got you
thursday i got you thursday i'm going to
share
exactly what i send in an email i'm
going to share exactly what i send in a
linkedin message i'm going to send
exactly what i send on twitter i got you
right it's going to be you could don't
copy and paste because there's like a
thousand of you copy and pasting it but
it'll give you the good idea
all right
memphis thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
cool
now
coffee chats
let's say you've done this previous
pattern
you met them you emailed them you
linkedin them you twittered them right
you feel like you're at that
acquaintance stage
right the coffee chats always be
different people they should you should
try yeah
all right
different people each week at least
right
the idea is to have a coffee chat now
coffee chat used to be
like in person like you would go to a
coffee shop you would sit down and you
would talk with the person
uh right now not everyone can do that a
lot of people are still not meeting up
in person right so when i say coffee
chat i mean just talking with someone
one-on-one now
some people like to do pub chats right
like where you go to like a you get beer
right some people don't some people like
coffee something like that right
it doesn't matter where you do it or how
you do it it's it's the idea of sitting
down and having a deeper conversation
with somebody one-on-one now
to get that coffee chat what you would
want to do is say send them an email hey
i really appreciate getting to know you
i thought a lot about the conversation
we had a week ago
i it seems like you're at in your career
where i want to be in the next couple of
years like in 10 years from now right
would you be open to giving me 15 20
minutes of your time just to have a
deeper conversation about how you got to
where you are right now
right
and you send them that email if they
don't respond
two weeks later you send a follow-up hey
i know times are busy i just wanted to
ping you again to see if you'd be open
to meeting for a quick coffee chat
and then if they don't respond to that
at the end of the month you send them
you send them one more email if at the
end of the month after three months they
don't respond to you then you just drop
it right don't keep badgering them you
tried you shot your shot they don't want
to meet up that's okay
you're gonna have a lot of people that
you shoot your shot they just don't meet
up they don't have time they don't
respond that's okay right but i
guarantee you a lot of people in tech
had
had coffee chats
when they started out that helped them
with their careers and so they want to
have coffee chats with you because they
were where you were right in boston
i have n i i've never turned down a
coffee chat
i've never turned down a coffee chat and
i think i've only gotten like no's like
i don't even i don't even i know it had
to have happened at least once
but i i can't remember somebody saying
no to a coffee chat
right
that's just that's just how ingrained in
tech this idea is
right that people know that like
engineers work together they they need
code from each other that like they
build their careers that way right and
so
this idea is that like
most people will be happy to have a
coffee chat with you a lot of people
would want to share their experience
with you because that's how they got to
where they are now now
the thing you have to realize is that
you should be doing this locally right
um
because you're you're going to be like
there will be a lot of people are going
to be asking for coffee chats soon and
so make sure you're trying to do this
like locally first and then other people
out
um
a lot of people don't a lot of people
get confused about the coffee chat like
should i buy them coffee like if you're
gonna meet in person here's my trick
if you're gonna meet in person
right
and you're gonna actually go to like an
actual coffee shop here's my trick
go early
right go early
and buy the smallest
coffee they have right if you have some
money
buy the smallest coffee they have
right it could be a shot of espresso i
don't care what it is tall coffee
whatever it is whatever the cheapest
freaking thing on the menu is you get
there early order that and you sit down
with it
right
now when the person you're meeting with
comes you can say hey i already got
myself a coffee well if you want to grab
something feel free to grab something
and then join me right so now there's no
there's no need to like buy them a
coffee they don't feel awkward having to
buy you a coffee right and if you can't
afford the the small coffee
just ask for a cup of water
right most places will be yeah sure
here's a cup of water you'll sit down
with the water you wait for them to come
in they'll see that the other person
goes to get coffee and then that's it
you're good right
if you're really cheap
like like if you really want to be like
like like save money
just keep the cup
next time you show up right next time
you show up you sit down and you already
have your cup
you can reuse that cup
right you can reuse that cup for like
your next five coffee chats
that's it you just bring the cup put on
the table and you just wait
all right that's it
i should say frugal not cheap you're
very frugal right that's what you do you
just bring the same cup you're good
all right
[Laughter]
all righty but like i said most of your
coffee chats right now
right most of your coffee chats right
now are probably going to be remote
they're probably going to be like google
call like google meets or zoom calls and
that's okay most people aren't meeting
like in person yet
all
right now the the last
well i got two big more things and we're
going to move on i promise um two two
two more big things that i want to talk
about
uh that i think are really helpful
when it comes to networking
one
is using the sheet
so here is the sheet uh you can do
exclamation point sheet in chat um but
the links here in the slides and the
sheet
uh the sheet has
just a place to keep your networking
okay it's a place to keep your
networking
and so
due to a large number of people
currently viewing the spreadsheet access
may become limited or not possible i've
never seen that before or not possible
what you're going to do is you're going
to make a copy of this sheet
right
don't worry about it right now you're
probably going to come after class
you're going to make a copy of this
sheet okay
you make a copy of this sheet
and in it you're gonna keep track of
each person that you network with right
you keep track of each person you
network with you're gonna add the event
that you met them at the date their name
where they work what they do
and most importantly the spark
the spark is like the thing that you
remember about that person right
right
that's the thing that you remember about
the person that way you never forget
like the thing that you talked about
right like they really like pokemon they
really like rubik's cubes they they hate
poker i don't know right you put it you
put the spark on there so you never
forget you put their email on here
and then you have
the uh kind of the three steps right
did you follow up with email if yes mark
it off
did you add them on linkedin if yes
market remember with a message right
if so mark it off right and did you add
them on twitter so mark it off right and
so over time you're going to have this
amazing list of people that you've
networked with that when it comes time
when it comes time to start kind of
reaching out right to start reaching out
to folks to get referrals this is where
you start
hey bob we met at such and such event
last year
i remember us talking deeply about rubix
cubes i really enjoyed our conversation
i'm currently looking for new roles are
there is there anything out there that
you feel like might be a good fit for me
here's my the stuff that i like here's
my resume boom right
so those people that you forged those
relationships with over the entire boot
camp you now have a nice clean list to
go back to with everything that you
remember about that person and that's it
it's how you get the jobs
right cool
there's also this other part of it
called the hit list we're not there yet
eventually when we go on the hunt to get
our job this other part of the sheet
becomes really important but for now
please keep track of the folks you
network with you'll never remember
everything you'll never remember the
spark you won't remember where when you
met them you put it all here so you
don't ever forget it
cool
now
you're turning strangers into friends
you found the networking places that
work well for you you're you're setting
up your your coffee chats you're using
the sheet you're doing everything you
need to do to be networking well
there's one more pro move
i'm a pro gamer this is my pro gamer
move you ready
alerts
alerts folks
so you can on google
right set up custom alerts so it's just
google.com alerts
and when you go here
you can create an alert
about anything
you can add each person that you met
and create a google alert about that
person's name
now whenever
whenever
i don't know what that is
whenever you
show i guess that was my all my alerts
for my name popping up whenever you
me go back there whenever you
type in someone's name
and something comes up about them
you will get an email
and it will say hey leon noel just
showed up in this article
right
if there is something
that they talked about
right they're really into i don't know
pokemon you could create an alert for it
now the next time you talk to that
person
you can bring something up
oh did you just see of this new news
about x y or z
or
if you want to reach back out to someone
right you want to reach back out to
someone right and like you want to reach
out to them to get it like you want to
get a referral
hey bob i just saw that your company
raised uh
100 million dollars
huge congrats i hope some of that money
is going your way i hope that like
you're you're hiring like wild and if
you are i'm looking for a new
opportunity uh let me know if there if
you if you know of anything that's open
that you think it might be a good fit
for hope you're doing really well hope
you're enjoying the new pokemon game
have a wonderful rest of your week
right
it's going to be you're in if you ever
need to follow up with somebody again
because you're going to have all these
alerts that you build up over time
the other thing too is that you could
like add their companies blogs like an
rss feed or their blog to an rss feed um
so the idea is just to like create
alerts for anybody
anybody that you put on this networking
sheet you create an alert for
that's it
so many people get concerned about like
genuine interest
here's how you don't worry about that be
a good human
provide more value than you take
right and actually care about the
relationship that's it if you do those
things you are fine
right these are just ways that you can
bring them back to your top of your mind
right
and this is how the world works folks
nobody's ever told you this this is how
you get jobs it's how you get better
jobs this is how you get the the big
jobs right has nothing to do with how
good you are at writing code has to do
with folks
wanting you on their team
that's it
all right we can go home
all right buddy have a good rest
all right
so on thursday
we are going to um do
more review of these like ideas of how
to network but we're also going to
give examples like i said of everything
so we're going to keep doing this it's
not something that you're going to start
tonight it's not something you're going
to start this week so we're going to
start next week after we've had more
time to talk about it and we've seen
more examples but before we jump into it
i wanted to
answer some questions
how do we follow up on coffee chats the
same way that you follow up on any other
follow-up i send them an email the day
after saying thanking them for their
time and providing some sort of value in
that email
pick something that you talked about
right
take something you talk about and then
put that into the email providing some
sort of value
what are some important questions to ask
during coffee chats
there are no important questions you're
there to make a friend you're there to
get to know someone right and if you
read how to win friends and influence
people one of the things they talk about
is people love to talk about themselves
so
if you don't know like if you're not
great at carrying conversations just get
the person talking about themselves oh
where do you work at do you like it
how long have you worked there how did
you get into tech did you go to school
for computer science did you learn on
your own oh what languages do you use oh
did you use those languages beforehand
did you have to teach yourself what are
you excited about with those languages
what are you excited about for your job
is there something like
you could just have those like basic
questions asking them about themselves
and how they got there and that'll carry
you for the entire coffee chat
that's it
can i use board game events or local
events besides meetups yeah you can
just the more tech focused they are the
more likely that network is to be
impactful for you um but you might find
like i don't know in new york a lot of
people in tech are like into like the
settlers of catan scene you go to like
the katan meetups and like it's 95
people in tech
and so like there might be pockets of
things that are like stuff you like to
do that might also have like an overlap
of people in tech and so you can find
those pockets if you want
how long should a coffee chat generally
be
20 to 30ish minutes maybe 15 to 30
minutes i would say
our game dev candidates for networking
should we focus on web dev i think the
closer you can get the web dev with your
coffee chats the better this will be for
you
have you ever done coffee chats with
your students of 100 devs i have in the
past eventually when we get further into
the cohort i open up
my calendar for folks to book 101 times
but we don't do that until we get a
little bit further on and so once we get
further in uh open up my calendar and
whoever wants to grab a one-on-one
coffee chat happy to do it
what happens when you have 100 people in
your network and hundreds of emails
every day about all the topics they like
uh you're not sending these every day
just after you meet the person the first
time and you should only be really doing
like five of these a week
hmm
who's the author of the book it's dale
carnegie
funny thing is that that's not their
real name they changed it because
carnegie sounded more business-like
and so they knew they would sell more
books if they changed their last name
the carnegie
what a hack i love it
five is a lot
yes it is but you can do it and uh my
students that i teach during the day do
more right
you're you're gonna cut you're gonna
start off small you're not gonna do all
five in the first week or two you're
gonna ease into it and get more
comfortable with it find the thing that
works for you and then um up it
how where do we get access to the
spreadsheet uh the link is in the slides
you can just click the link in the
slides i think so many people ran to it
that it might be like down the copy but
come back after class and copy it
there are three versions of the book
which one do you want us to read uh
whatever one you can find for free i
don't think stuff has changed too much
there's like a digital version now i
haven't read that one but just the
regular old one is fine
should they work at different places
yeah the more spread out your
connections are the better you're gonna
do
is this doable through zoom yeah of
course
you can find the book for free yeah
uh is it okay to network with those that
are in our current full drive they're
all probably worked with in the past
yeah but you want to be adding more like
it's good to reconnect with them for
sure you want to be adding new people
too
uh i have tried this type of networking
being friendly with co-workers in
general has never worked in my favor i'm
just not people magnet is it different
in tech it's very different in tech
because like one people
typically are i mean let's just say it
nerdy and um they like to nerd out over
stuff and so if you can nerd out over
stuff with them it gives you like a
common bond instantly like if you're
showing up to a javascript meetup you're
a nerd right and so you can both nerd
out over javascript and that just
immediately gives you like something to
connect over
and it makes it a little bit easier
but also you have to read that book
you have to read the book like it's just
if you don't have those skills in your
arsenal this is not going to work for
you
cool
and when i call people nerds i'm also
calling myself the a big nerd too
what if the coffee chat went so great
they offer you a job in like a month but
you're not ready what do you say
thank you i'll start
and then you learn on the job
it's not a coding boot camp folks y'all
got got this is getting a job boot camp
so somebody gives you a job you take it
you have succeeded
alrighty
let's do one more and then we're going
to take our break and then we come back
we're going to get get into
responsiveness we're we have a lot of
fun with response to this tonight
would concentrating on companies that
you want to work at be helpful yes but
you're going to do that more towards the
end of program with the hunt the hunt
becomes like once we're better at
networking we get targeted with the
folks we want to network with and we
specifically seek out those individuals
so for right now you want to kind of do
general networking get comfortable with
it
figure out what works for you what
doesn't work for you like this whole
part of the whole part of this
networking phase is to like figure out
what works for you
so that when we get to the phase where
we have to be targeted with our
networking we're good at it
what if i'm not nerdy enough that's okay
you're gonna find you gotta find the
group that works for you you know
all right
what if the event overlaps with class
i mean vods are always available right
after
figure out what's the priority for you
how long should a typical coffee chat go
for i think i said like 15 to 30 minutes
is like good
can you meet people at hackathons
absolutely yeah hackathons are a great
place to meet folks because you're
working together on a team
i mentioned the community groups and i
think hackathons kind of get lumped into
those community groups there are a lot
of cities like groups that come together
to build stuff every week
and so i know like code for boston came
every week to build stuff together um
they're typically like civic-minded
stuff where they're building tools to
help people and so like you're kind of
like doing one part volunteering one
part hanging out and building stuff with
people that's really great
um also
a lot of conferences nowadays have like
quiet networking or like quiet sessions
so at like libre planet they always have
uh two parties that happen at the same
time uh one party's like at a pub it's
like rancorous there's lots of like
there's like meeting a lot of people
you're drinking like doing all that but
they always at the same time
open up a space where people can come
and just work together on like different
free software projects
right and so
it's about finding what works for you
right
you'll often find like more quiet spaces
where you can like work with others and
so like i said there's there's such a
range of places that you can meet people
don't think that you're only gonna be
good at one thing try them all
try them all multiple times and then
really make that decision you know what
i find conferences are the best for me
i'm gonna load up on my conferences i
find these meet-ups are the best thing
i'm gonna load up on meetups i find that
like hacking sessions where i get to
meet up with other engineers and build
stuff is what works best for me i'm
gonna load up on those right and so you
got to
you got to you got to figure out what
works for you
are there beginner hackathons oh yeah
there's tons of them
uh
can 15 year olds get internships and
network like adults absolutely the
younger you are the easier this is
like
the younger you are the more likely
people are to help you
and so if you're like if you're like a
youngin right
people are gonna be more likely to like
take have coffee chats with you and um
so if you're like if you're like a
teenager that's listening to this yeah
you're gonna you're going to
you're going to probably have a little
bit easier time with this
because more people are going to be
wanting to like mentor you i guess you
could say yeah
yeah i wouldn't worry about that too
much
and i don't mean like like adults this
is not for adults i'm talking to people
that are not adults does your age
doesn't matter when it comes to
networking if you're already an adult
it just doesn't matter
all right folks let's go ahead and
take our top of the hour break
if you're new here
let's go ahead and
take our five minute break we have to be
healthy if you're able please get up
move around stretch
let your eyes focus on something that's
not the screen
and we'll come back together in five
minutes when we come back we're gonna do
a quick review of css we're gonna jump
into response in this we're gonna see
how to make our sites responsive we talk
about the three key things when it comes
to building responsive websites uh and
then we'll we'll break for the evening
all right folks five minutes on the
clock
you
just got a new foot rest i'm trying it
out sorry
oh i like it
leona are we not supposed to be using
divs it's not i messed up on the
homework uh they just don't have the
same semantic meaning anymore it's not
that you can't use them it's just that
there's probably better uh better better
ones out there there are tags out there
i need a new foot rest what did you get
it's the human scale one
they're like they're they're
normal one that's not the triangular one
okay it makes me sit a little bit better
i think
should we build rapport with recruiters
absolutely
all right folks come on back come on
back
alrighty
how much of the advanced shea house
should be retaining uh not all of it i
mean it's something that you want to
have a first pass on right
anything that's important we're going to
go over in class
all right folks
come on in
no human scale not human skin foot rests
i've been watching a lot of rome i would
have put that past them recently
oh yeah
human scale
all right folks let's let's power
through
some of our um review tonight um but i
wanted to put a little note
we're gonna start adding more layers to
the show here folks we have this
networking thing that's gonna become
something we start doing next week
we're gonna start seeing slightly harder
material
right and the idea here is we're gonna
start turning it up right we're gonna go
slow right one of the things i hate the
most are tutorials that throw you in the
deep end and then laugh at you while
you're drowning that's not what we like
to do here
but we're gonna slowly start to raise
the intensity right let's have to make
it come up a little bit folks that want
to push they're going to be some push
work that you can do
right some push work that you can do
right that won't be required but
something if you want to start pushing
you can and the overall amount of stuff
we're doing the speed of which we do it
it's going to start slowly turning up
not yet
something to keep in mind we're going to
start doing and start have more push
work if you want it on thursday i'm
going to give a lot of work that needs
to get done and some of it will be
optional but if you want to push you can
do it and that push work will help you
go deeper and deeper on topics okay
so when you put that out there some
folks kind of like all right paste this
class maybe a little too slow right for
them we're gonna give you some push work
if you need that otherwise it might be
just right for other folks it might be a
little a little too fast but just so you
know we're going to slowly bring up the
temperature
all right
golden rule separation concerns is
important for what
why is it important
organization exactly for us and for
others that we work with want to make
sure that
our content is kept in our html our
styles kept in our css and our
javascript our behav our behavior is
kept in our javascript nice
css goes where
in a separate in a separate file exactly
unless you're doing html emails which
can have inline uh or if you're working
at amazon you have critical path css to
make up a little bit of css in your head
but for the rest of us we put it in a
separate file and we link to it with uh
with a link tag in our head
uh this whole thing here is what
this right here is a what oh don't have
demo pro one oh no
all right have my demo pro turn on
so thing yep exactly is a rule
a rule is broken down into a selector
and a declaration block declaration
block is broken down into declarations
declarations are broken down into
properties and values nice
as a speed run folks if you uh if you're
new here we went over this for six
classes so this is just kind of us
getting our space repetition in don't
feel like you have to keep up with this
pace go back to our other videos
beautiful
we know that css has read from top to
bottom stuff that comes below can be
overrated by stuff that comes above we
call that the what
the cascade nice beautiful
all right we have ways of selecting
elements based on their relationships
here we're seeing a direct parent-child
relationship where a child comes
directly inside of a parent
we also have parent child
meaning that the child can come any part
inside of the parent doesn't matter how
many levels deep it could be a great
great great grandchild and still work
difference between a direct child and a
regular parent child is that there's no
carrot in between
nice we also have siblings this is
the direct sibling meaning that the only
paragraph here that will be read is this
paragraph here because it immediately
has a sibling that comes
before
nice
we learned about ids and classes
ids are unique identifiers enables us to
target one element and only one element
once an element has an id it cannot get
another id and then id cannot be reused
across other elements
beautiful
kind of in the same idea they're classes
classes can be reused to target multiple
elements i can get multiple elements in
my html the same class and i'll target
all those elements at the same time and
each element can have as many classes
theoretically as they want
alrighty
chat how many points of specificity does
this rule have
how many points
all right see the guess is coming in all
right let's take a look at it
we have
two tags
one class
and one id
so 112 points of specificity nice
how many points specificity does this
rule have chat
how many points of specificity
another guess
all right
see some guesses in there i'm seeing 131
a lot let's take a look at it we have
one tag
we have
three classes
and we have one id
so 131 points specificity
nice
and this one here how many points of
specificity does this rule have
the rule
my fingers slipped
your finger slipped uh huh
all right let's take a look
we have no tags
so zero tags
we have one two three classes
we have one id
and we have an other for bang important
so 1
130 points of specificity
some folks are saying why the plus sign
that's a sibling selector you haven't
been here for our last classes
definitely catch up with those classes
as we go through all the things that you
see here in
detail cool
box model folks
the box model is made up of what three
things
box models made up of what three things
ah
okay i see a couple people a little
little meet up little a little a little
buried here
the three things that make up the box
model
are the element itself
the padding
and the border right so you have the
width of the element
the width of its padding
and the width of the border
same thing for the height you have the
height of the element the height of its
padding and the height of the border
margin pushes the box model around it's
the bully that pushes it around
right margin pushes it around
cool
now remember padding increases the
distance between the element and its
border right so if you want to put space
between the element and its border you
increase that with padding and then
margin pushes this whole thing around
alrighty
we have some starter code for this
evening
if you're new and you need the starter
code it's always shared on discord
before class starts
you can join our discord in the follow
along materials channel you'll find the
code for today
and in that code for today
we have box model practice
so i'm going to look at this box model
practice
there is some some things that you have
to do it's both in the html and the css
i'm gonna put four minutes on the clock
and i want you to go as fast as you can
in these four minutes to get as much
done as possible and then we're gonna go
over it together
four minutes on the timer
as fast as you can go
don't worry if you can't finish in four
minutes i know that's a little bit of
time
but we need to need a push
alrighty have at it see you in four
minutes
this is box model practice
get out of here with these duns
i haven't even opened it yet
uh izzy we did the pokemon card live
we did the drawing live
um i just need to get your address
if you whisper me your address here on
twitch we'll get it coming your way
don't send it on discord i won't see it
but if you whisper it hear me on twitch
i'll see it
what happens when the market gets
oversaturated with software engineers
will salaries drop drastically
no
i mean it's not going to get over
saturated and if it did every company is
a tech company now they all need
engineers they all need to build stuff
we're at like a 2 million shortage right
now
i've been doing this for 10 years this
is the most jobs i've ever seen
it's really hard for people to gain the
skills they need to get a job
there's a long trough of sorrow
i noticed you were in csgo over the
weekend the server's almost ready uh if
you check the slides wink wink i'll
share more towards the end of class
about it but yeah
we'll be doing the house selection soon
yeah the houses are just going to be
other
study communities so as the study
communities roll roll out
we'll have uh
we'll have the other ones too
superman hey thank you for the five
gifted subs
superman no home
thank you for the good subs
cs go why not valorent uh because i'm
really good at cs csgo
no just goes completely free and can run
on a toaster that's why i like cs go and
it's really easy to set up servers
private servers
you got your first coffee chat next week
congrats it's huge
now push work won't be mandatory
just for those that want to have when
they go deeper on stuff
oh a lot of folks getting done
my husband on 1.6 that's that's that's
wonderful i love that
csgo can run on a smart fridge i'm
pretty sure i could probably run on a
smart fridge
lafox gaming done i love it
please go slow no this is this is review
for us we're going to go through this
pretty quickly but the cool thing is i
share all my solution code on discord as
soon as class is over and you can always
re-watch the vod
but this one we're going to go through a
little bit faster we can get to our
spots in this before we run out of time
all right folks let's take a look at
this together
all right
please give the h1 some padding on three
sides
easy to do we learn that shortcut last
class so we can do padding
and we can just do let's do um
maybe we can do
zero padding on the top
20 pixels on the right
um
10 pixels
on the bottom
and i don't know 15 pixels on the left
remember padding gets assigned clockwise
so zero on the top 20 on the right 10 on
the bottom 15 on the left so that's
giving padding on three sides and margin
on just one side so let's do margin
we could do margin left of
i'll say 20 let's do let's do something
great just like 100 pixels
and then
uh we could do zero zero zero if we
wanted to and that would just give so
maybe just margin on the top just let's
keep it that way so this would be margin
on the top of 100 pixels there'll be 100
pixels on the top
zero on the right zero on the bottom
zero on the left
right
and yeah the margin on just one side
light purple background and light blue
lettering uh what did you all do for
light purple
what did you all do for light purpling
lavender yeah i think we did that last
time right
lavender and what did y'all do for the
color of the lettering for light blue
plum
sky blue light blue
sky blue that's a that's a ball in color
all right let's check it out
all right so
we inspect it real quick
we can see
this is an h1 that has the margin on the
top there's no padding and
we can oh sorry no padding on the top
but you can see if we look
that rng color at the top when i hover
right that's the margin
the green color is the padding and you
can see the actual element
and if you ever want to see like the
fully computed values we can always um
scroll down
and then boom there you go you see all
of our padding taking effect all of our
border and all of our margin right in
the inspector
lovely
all right let's keep doing the other
ones here
please give the h2 significant padding
on the top and bottom so we can use that
repeating factor that we talked about
last time where we can do let's say like
50 pixels zero
and so what that'll do is it'll put 50
on the top
zero on the right
uh 50 on the bottom and zero on the left
when it's just two it'll repeat
right it'll repeat
dark green border
order
three pixels solid what did you all use
for dark green
dark green
[Laughter]
dark greed um
but interestingly enough
it says on the top and bottom
right a dark green board on top bottom
so we can actually do border top if we
wanted to
right and then we could also do
uh border bottom if we want it we do
have like control over where the borders
go
cool
and then orange background
background
orange
let's save this
go back let's refresh
looking good
uh oh didn't work
didn't work
why didn't it work
there you go we gotta do border bottom
cool
second try
alrighty
i know we're going fast this one but
this is just a review
uh please give the section a thick blue
border
we're gonna do section
thick blue border let's do 10 we'll see
border
10 pixels solid
blue
height
300 pixels nice
and more than 400 pixels of margin on
the top
so we just do margin top if we wanted to
and we do 401 pixels
there we go make sure we got it
beautiful look at all that margin we
created
and then please make the spans of a thin
yellow borders and equal padding and
margin on all sides
so span
thin yellow borders let's do border
one pixels solid
yellow
cool
and then equal padding and margin on all
sides let's just do padding
10 pixels
and then margin
10 pixels and remember when it's just
one
right when it's just one
it's going to apply that 10 on all sides
so it's going to do 10 on the top 10 on
the right on the bottom 10 on the left
right same thing for margin 10 on the
top 10 on the right on the bottom 10 on
the left boom
got it first try hey
nice
well done everybody well done and like i
said we went through this fast but you
can always re-watch the vod and i always
share my solutions on discord after
class good stuff everybody let's just
check to make sure the spans came
through
all right spans are looking good let's
inspect one just to make sure
beautiful you see that padding on all
sides border on all sides and margin all
sides wonderful
all right let's move on
all right we reviewed all the layouts on
sunday the the the additional layouts
but um i want to do the third one
together together again
we're using floats for right now
the reason why we introduced floats as i
kept i mentioned before
is you're probably going to see them on
the job they're way harder to learn and
so i want you to get practice with them
here the homework that i give you this
week and even next week will still
require to use floats i want you to get
practice with it here a lot of my
students the first kind of tickets they
get or jobs they get are like converting
old code to new code and you gotta kind
of know how floats work and they're kind
of tricky they have some quirks and so i
want you to learn the quirks here right
so that you um can can can deal with
them on the job
remember floats are always trying to do
one thing really well
and that's get into the corner right if
you float something to the left it's
trying to go up as much as it can to
write as much as they can can fighting
to get in that corner if you float
something to the right trying to go up
as much as you can to raise much you can
fighting to get in that corner
beautiful
now uh we saw some simple layouts uh we
did uh layout one and two and three on
stream i want to do three together again
because we're gonna use it when we get
to responsiveness and so for this layout
three i'm just gonna use our template
okay
um so if i look at this
chat what would this be
what would that be
header
about
this one
footer
nice and how about these three
oh four sorry what for
cool yeah they could all just be
sections we don't really have content to
tell us what they really are so we kind
of take like an educated guess here and
if i wanted to distinguish just this
section away from the other ones what
could i do
i want to just target that that section
is compared to other ones what could i
do
it could be a class exactly class or an
id i like to use classes
over ids just because ids have too much
specificity but
yeah we could give it a class or an id
all right i'm going to open up my
template here
and in the template we're going to do
that layout
so template i always have a fresh
template that i love to just open up and
start writing in
we're going to have our header
and then we have four sections
and so i'm going to do my four sections
section
and section
beautiful and then the last one i'm
going to do is just the footer
beautiful and if we look at the
image
it was the second section that had the
um
the bigness there
so we're going to call this one
this the class
of
pick one
there we go got thick one there and
all the other ones seem good
cool
all righty i think the html looks good
let's jump into the css
we could use sudo selectors we could use
ids right
we could do all these different things
our our css already has the box model
hack for us we got all the good stuff
i'm gonna go straight to my layout here
however like the header and footer being
separate our header and footer are
exactly the same in this layout and so
i'm just going to give them a height and
a width
i'm going to do 100 pixels
they don't need a width they're by
default 100
and um we're give them a border
and we're getting a border of two pixels
solid black just to see it and then the
other thing that we can do here is we
want to
um just put our clear by default we know
that we're gonna have trouble with the
footer sliding up let's just do clear
both
we took our time on this during office
hours so you can definitely go back
through office hours and see a little
bit slower but that's the idea here got
our header in our footer
let's open this in the browser and see
what we got
good our header and footer's showing up
let's go ahead and get our sections on
the board here
cool let's go ahead and give our section
of
let's do height and let's give them a
height of 300 pixels
and then
we want them to all be a width of what
if we look at the image
maybe this could be like 20 20 20
and then thick one could be 40.
right like 20 20 20 and 40. i think
that'd be close enough
so our sections are going to all start
off with a width
of 20 percent
cool and we're going to give them a
border
not background origin what's that give
them a border
we'll do two pixel solid black as well
uh why don't i have to worry about my
borders when i'm calculating the width
right now
i don't have to care about the borders
when calculating my width right now
yeah we got the box sizing up top right
we have the box sizing so we don't
really have to calculate the border size
as well
all right and that'll get all of our
sections looking the same and sitting
next to each other
beautiful
they're not sitting next to each other
yet because we still need
float let's go ahead and give them a
float
left
lovely
now they should be sitting next to each
other
looks good we still need thick one to be
bigger let's go ahead and write a class
for thick one
and let's go ahead and give it a
width
of 40 percent
beautiful
and
i think that'll be all we wrote
cool
now the heights could be a little bit
different to match the uh
to match the
like the the actual image but that's
pretty close enough that's the spirit of
it and so we'll we'll stay here for now
all right
let's take a look at the css header and
footer
section
thick one looks good and i say we
achieved our layout if you want this
solution it'll be in the materials after
class
cool
let's get to the main event tonight
folks
tonight
we're here to talk about responsiveness
or responsive websites the idea of our
layouts looking great
across all different kinds of devices
right
something really big happened to the
internet that changed everything in how
we do it right something huge happened
that that revolutionized or changed how
we approached web development entirely
chat sees it it was mobile phones
exactly the mobile phone explosion
changed everything we could no longer
get away
with fixed screen sizes anymore we had
to make sure our screen our websites
look good across all the different
devices that folks might actually be
using
when we first started looking at sites
back in the day they were fixed i
remember
what is this
14 years ago
uh
i was building one of my first companies
i've talked about i'll talk about the
street before it was like a reverse
craigslist where folks that needed stuff
could ask for it and people could
respond saying hey i got that thing for
you
and um
i remember everything being built
in something called 960 grid the whole
idea the whole concept was that there
was like a photoshop
template that i could use where it was
960 pixels wide and
it would it just was really cool to be
able to like build your site with this
960 grid
and so like your site looked really good
like you had like a good template to use
um but it meant that your site was fixed
at 960 pixels which was like
that was the jam back in the day because
that was like the size of like all the
normal screens and so it just it just
worked
when mobile came out
that no longer was a practice and it
took a long time for a lot of companies
to catch up and realize hey
maybe we should catch this train of
being mobile friendly
but for a lot of companies it took them
a while they had lots of like
intermediary steps some of them would
create like mobile sites specifically
had like mdot sites and all these things
and there were companies that just
didn't care
one of my favorites was ups here
in 2017 if you went to their their
website this is what it looked like
you can use the wayback machine to see
it
um and this is what it looked like
and uh no matter what you did to it it
kind of just stayed that size if you had
a bigger screen you just had all this
white space there and that that was just
kind of it and they kind of kept this
design all the way this is in 2017 like
you can see it right here is really tiny
april 29th of 2017 this was their
website
right it was not responsive in any way
shape or form it was fixed it didn't
matter if you had a big screen small
screen this is what you got okay
now there's a lot of speculation as to
like why they did this for so long ups
is a big company
that has a lot of resources they had
like intermediary steps that like helped
fix this but like their core site was
still always this right
and one of the things i always used to
kind of think about was that
they probably just didn't care about
mobile
like they just didn't care it's probably
not where they made their money they
make their money from like businesses
sending a zillion packages
a day
and edith from shipping
every day would come to the website
paste hundreds of tracking notifications
in here and they were just used to it
they had done it for 10 years they
didn't want to change it up and so when
ups finally did kind of like get their
stuff together and build
a site that worked it will not work but
like wasn't fixed notice notice what
happens here look at this site like look
at look at look out set up like
tracking's right here
shipping right like when they eventually
did like modernize
it kind of just like shifted it to the
right a little bit right like they did
they didn't want it they wanted to make
sure
that edith was able to come in every day
and still do their thing
and and they just had to like move their
eyes just slightly to the right a little
bit right
it worked and it probably worked for a
really long time they probably could
hang on and now there's something that
works that's responsive but not a whole
lot has changed with it
right
cool
this is in direct contrast to sites that
are like really great and responsive so
boston.com is one of the sites i really
like the show for responsiveness
as you kind of
change the viewport or the size of the
screen things happen right now things
have gotten a little bit smaller
columns start to disappear
right as we get smaller and smaller we
go from kind of a three column layout to
a singular column layout and so what i
love about boston.com is that it really
highlights kind of the three
cornerstones of responsiveness what
you're seeing right here are amazing
content decisions right it's not just
that the size is getting
bigger like things are taking up more
space it's going to a singular column
they've made really good decisions about
what is important and what is not
important right and so
as we kind of bring the screen back up
they give us extras we get a little bit
bigger they bring us extra right and the
really funny thing is
i used to when i used to teach in a
classroom i always had like a projector
behind me and so we would bring this
site up on a projector and i swear i
don't know if they're still there or not
but we brought up a projector which was
like i don't know like a 60 plus inch
screen right
there were ads all the way on the
outside like you can't see them but they
were all the way out there on the sides
and i was like hmm why would you do that
i was like well
if you have a big old screen
right you probably have some money so
let's let's let's let's throw them some
ads
right let's throw some ads right
but uh the funny thing here is that
boston.com
had to change
right they had to change
with the mobile
explosion
when do people get their news
right when do people check the news
if you're in a metro area when are
people checking the news
yeah during their commute you have so
many people that are taking the t in
boston's what we call the subway right
and they want to get just the the raw
essentials on their commute right and so
you need a site that works well on
mobile if your goal is to sell ads if
your goal is to get eyeballs on content
so you can sell ads and you don't have a
site that works well across mobile
devices you're not getting those
eyeballs you're not selling ads you're
not making money so they had a really
strong incentive to become mobile
friendly and for their site to be really
responsive
cool
now
when i talk about responsiveness
i'm talking about three really important
ideas
fluidity
elasticity and content decisions or a
site to be considered responsive i think
it really needs to have these three
things so what the heck are these three
things
fluidity is when everything is a
percentage or can respond natively you
have a fluid site so if we look at the
layout we just did
this layout
is really fluid
like it can go from a full screen
right from a full screen
to like a mobile size screen and it kind
of works
right it kind of it kind of just works
right
and so we would call this fluid right as
as it's resizing it's working
eventually
we're going to make content decisions
and those content decisions are going to
be at certain sizes
the way that our sites look good
in between the sizes that we choose is
that fluidity the fluidity is what makes
it so that it doesn't seem jarring when
we make our content decisions it kind of
just works all the way up to that
decision point right it's still fluid up
to that decision point then we make the
decision we're still good so you need
that fluidity that fluid underpinning so
that as you make your decisions it
doesn't really matter so much right that
fluidity is really helpful
the elasticity is that next piece and
elasticity is at its core
setting our
fonts
and text to use a responsive unit of
measure and so the responsive unit of
measure that we're going to use is
called an m or a rem
okay
now this is a somewhat tricky of a topic
but i like to think about some like a
very real scenario
let's imagine you are building a website
for your company or for a client
and you build out all the css
right
i forgot that was it here
you fill out all the css it's 5 000
lines of css
right
and your boss you you take the site to
your boss you show it to them and
they're like leon i love this it looks
great um
i just want all the fonts to be double
the size
right they come to you and say i want i
want all the fonts to be double the size
well guess what you need to do now
you need to go line by line through your
css well hopefully like you're doing
like control find right and you need to
not only find all the pixel values that
you made for your font size but you also
have to do the math
to double them
right
you have to do the math to double so
you're you're doing control fine through
this massive code base
you're finding all the pixel values and
you're doubling them
if you had used m's
you would have had to make one change
on one line let me show you what i mean
so here
we have a section
and when you use ms
m's get their font size
from the parent element so here's a
paragraph
and its parent is the section
so on my section
i put a font size
of 10 pixels
okay
on my section i put a font size of 10
pixels
so if
i made my paragraph
1m
how many pixels
is that paragraph now
10 pixels exactly
my paragraph is now 10 pixels because
the section has a font size of 10 pixels
on it and the m is a responsive unit of
measure it looks to that pixel value and
that's where it gets its basis
okay
now
if i wanted to change all of my pixels
and every single bit of font that's
inside that section i want it to be
double
how could i make every single bit of
text be double the size
what could i do i have all these things
inside my section now paragraphs heading
elements all this type of text and i
want all those font sizes to be double
exactly i could come up here
i could change this from 10
to 20 pixels and boom
all of my font sizes are now double the
size 1m is no longer 10 pixels now 1m is
20 pixels so i don't have to go through
5000 lines of css i made one change
right
one change and everything responded
that's the beauty of this elasticity
now
the problem with ms
is that anyone can come along
and
put another containing element
and if that containing element has a
font size that's what your m's will be
equal to
the m's only go
to the closest parent with a font size
so if you're working on a big team
and somebody else comes along and puts a
parent with a different font size your
m's might not be
might not be the size that you expect
them to be
so to not have to worry about like other
team members or maybe yourself coming
along and putting another parent element
with a different font size we have
rems
rem stand for root m's
and they only
only
get their font size from
the html element
whatever size
you put on the html element
is where they get their styling from
right so the cool thing now is whenever
you use rems it'll always look that html
element and figure out what to do
now
you're saying leon rem sound great if i
ever want it to double the size of my
text i could go and change the font size
here
and my one ram would now be worth more
right rams could be helpful there
but where rems get really really helpful
is that it helps us with individuals
that may have some accessibility
concerns
we right now
are using
the i'm right now using i'm gonna say
i'm using my browser right now with the
default font size
right the default font size for pretty
much every browser
is 16 pixels
right so 16 pixels
that's too big brain for me i can't do
that math i don't want to be sitting
there one ram 16 pixels two rams two
times sixteen
i don't too much for me
too much for me right
so what i do
is the big brain move
of setting my font size
the 62.5
now
the the quick ones among us
would realize that 62.5
of 16 pixels gives us what
gives us 10 pixels
right
if you do 62.5 percent of 16 it gives us
10. so this is just a fancy way
of getting back to the 10 pixels so that
i can do the math in my head one rem is
10 pixels two rams is 20 pixels three
rems is 30 pixels
but
there's one other major added benefit
and that's kind of the accessibility
thing that i talked about
if somebody else
sets their default font size
to something bigger
well guess what
all of our fonts will respect that font
size that they set
right if somebody has a visual
impairment where they need all the text
to be way bigger
well now instead of telling them screw
you 10 pixels or screw you
25 pixels right in hard coding the pixel
value
well now
as their base font size increases
our font size knows how to respond
because we're using rems
all right so if they go in and change
their base font size to be bigger our
site will will grow with it
right it'll grow with it so so far we
have fluidity
and we have elasticity as the
underpinnings of building a responsive
website
but there's one more
and don't worry this is a first pass
we're going to do more talk we're going
to talk about rems and ms again next
class i know it's a difficult topic this
is your first time through it but we're
going to go through it together again on
thursday as well there's one other thing
content decisions
right content decisions
to have a truly responsive website we
have to make some decisions about what
content we show
on mobile do we want to show
this sidebar
right
on mobile do we want them to see
all of this
navigational content
right on mobile we really don't need
them to see any of that stuff on mobile
there's three things that people in
boston care about
news
weather and sports that's it
if they're on their phone you better get
them their news quick
their weather quick and their sports
quick
is it a blizzard outside that the pats
win
and tell me what's happening in my
neighborhood that's all they care about
right
and so
on mobile we're going to make decisions
that make it work best for our users
right and so at different screen sizes
we're going to make these content
decisions what should they be seeing at
this size should it be there or should
it not be there
right to make these content decisions
we use
what what do we use to get rid of the
content that we don't want them to see
or to to remove things that we don't
care about
what do we use
exactly we use media queries
media queries are how we can make these
content decisions what gets removed
what gets changed what gets stacked
right all these things to be
changed using media queries
what media queries enable us to do
is to say at this viewport or at this
screen size
do this thing in terms of css rules
right
now when it comes time to using media
queries to make
content decisions there's really kind of
two schools of thought when it comes
time to like make those content
decisions
the first school of thought
is to just take your design
shrink it until it doesn't look good
that's your media query shrink it again
until it doesn't look good that's your
media query shrink it again doesn't look
good that's your media query right
the other way that become really popular
is mobile first
mobile first this idea of starting with
the mobile layout first and then adding
stuff as you have more screen real
estate right the idea of mobile first is
that you you start with all the goods
like the stuff that people actually care
about and as you get larger you can add
other things that might be relevant but
aren't the core of what you need
now it's up to you which way you go
mobile first or from large to small and
it might depend on how you're like who
or what you're working on
if i'm working with a designer
that gives me what mobile should look
like
what
tablet should look like what what
desktop should look like i actually
start from the largest screen and then
work my way to the smallest and when it
doesn't look good that's where i write
my media query i find that a little bit
easier for me
if i'm working by myself without a
designer i start mobile first
right just the stuff that cares and i
can add stuff if i want as i get bigger
it's kind of a personal decision and
what i want you to do is i want you to
try both ways so when you are working on
the content specifically the homework
that's going to get assigned on thursday
i want you to try both so you see what
makes sense to you then mobile first
makes sense or did starting large and
going small makes sense like play with
it and kind of figure out your your
rhyme or reason for doing this
okay
now
we talked about the three big things
fluidity which we kind of already got
ourselves already in percentages or it
looks good as we get smaller elasticity
will add rems and things like that and
then these content decisions will start
making by the power of
media queries
okay
so
let's go back and look at
our
our layout that we just did okay we're
gonna go a little over today maybe about
five ten minutes over today
um let's go ahead and take a look at the
layout that we just did okay
here's the layout
what i want to do
is i want to
write some media queries
that can kind of that can like show
this content decisions at play
so the first media query i'm going to do
is at media
screen
and a max width
of 600 pixels
so whenever you see screen
what that really means
is zero
whenever you see whenever you see screen
it's basically saying
zero
and so between zero pixels and six
hundred pixels i wanna make
my sections
the background color green
cool let's see if this works between 0
and 600 pixels it should be green
let's go back let's refresh
and let's shrink our
size here
boom
once we got below those 600 pixels
everything became
green
right screen just means zero
so between zero
and 600 pixels
right
we we got this this greenness to start
taking effect
but the cool thing is we can actually
come back
and start adding other media queries on
top of this so i can do another media
query here and i'm going to do
at media
and don't worry the the the the way that
we actually stack these in the future
kind of changes but this is kind of just
for us to see it we can say min with
and we can do 601 pixels
and a max width
of let's say 900 pixels
beautiful so what i'm saying now is
between 601 pixels
and
pixels i want this to take effect so
let's go ahead and do section
let's do background
and let's make it i don't know let's
make it loo
cool
all right and so the idea here is that
between 600 pixels and zero it'll be
green but between 601 and 900 it'll be
blue
and let's go ahead and
shrink our window
[Music]
900 pixels blue
and then once we go below 600 green
right above 600 blue
above 900 nothing and the cool thing is
if you bring up the inspector
and we don't make it as obnoxious
uh you can actually see the numbers the
numbers are going to show up right here
it'll be really small to see on this
screen but it does show up right there
and it does show you
as you're making it smaller where you're
at so i can see that i'm at 937
and i'm ripping 900
right
and then if i keep going i can see the
pixel values going down
600 boom there you go
and the cool thing is you can actually
right here see these little tablet and
phone icons
we can actually click on these and it'll
give you
the most common
phone sizes
right you can click on like phones ipads
and everything's built right into the
inspector so if you wanted to see if it
looks good on an ipad or whatever you
could do that from right in here
all right so we have a media query from
zero to
600 pixels we have one from 600 to 900
um not only can we change colors but we
can actually like get rid of stuff
right we can get rid of stuff so if we
looked we had this idea thick one sorry
this class of thick one
let's target that class
pick one
and let's get rid of it
display
none
there we go
display none
so what's going to happen is between 600
and 900 pixels this one's literally
going to disappear
let's try it
all right we refresh
boom boom boom boom boom boom
under 900 look
it disappeared
right it disappeared
and they're all blue
so what we could do is we can say all
right
at the screen size
i want them to disappear
but i wasn't i want them to take up the
full width
we still got that empty space
let's go back and um
make these with
33.33 percent
repeating of course
let's make that happen
and then when we come back
and we refresh
now they take up all the space
right
you go above 900 thick boy comes back
thick one comes back
above below 900.
it's gone and everything takes up the
full window
and then below 600 all those rules go
out the way thick one comes back but
it's a different color
so we have the ability to have really
really tight control
over all of the content decisions that
we make
just using media queries and the way
that we write our media queries
and the way that we stack them and the
decisions that we make we'll get better
at over time right this is kind of just
like
an exercise to show you that you have
the power that you have the control that
you can do all this stuff it is at the
mercy of the cascade still too like you
have to
make sure you still have the right
specificity and things like that but
this is just to start showing you that
you can play around with these media
queries and do things and so part of
your homework that i asked you to do
was to make
the
um
the 15 minutes of pain responsive
what i want you to do
is i want you to make this responsive
with at least three media queries
right once you make it at least three
media queries and maybe try to find
media queries that would make it look
good on laptop
maybe tablet and then maybe mobile
right
laptop
tablet mobile at least three different
media queries to make it look good
across those screen sizes and think
about what you might do on mobile i
think something you might do on mobile
is instead of having these sit next to
each other what could you do
them having sit next to each other what
could you do
you could stack them right just like we
saw with boston.com
we look at boston.com
when they got smaller like you can see
this is like side by side right but as
soon as we got to the mobile site
they stacked everything right they
stacked everything we have as much
scrolling real estate as we want you can
always scroll until kingdom come right
like you can scroll as much as you want
so stacking probably makes a lot of
sense on mobile because people are used
to scrolling
cool
so homework if you started on it that's
great i want you to have at least three
media queries and i want you to make
some decisions right remember it's not
only just fluidity and elasticity it's
the decisions that you make so make some
decisions as you're making your media
queries
uh one really important thing that we
haven't done yet
is that we have to add something to our
template for all of this to work
right
for all this to work we need to add
something to our template please make
sure
you take this meta viewport
and you add it
to the head of your template so i'm
going to go to my template
i'm going to go to my head
and write with the other meta keywords
i'm going to add this
boom
there you go
i might have actually already put it in
there for you
you want to make sure that this is
inside of your template
this viewport
with device width
right device with
what this is going to do is there's
something cheeky
right there's something cheeky
these media queries
these media queries actually don't work
on mobile
these media queries really just handle
like you making the browser window
bigger or smaller
right
bigger or smaller like in the main
window
what you need to tell the browser is
that hey
figure out the width of this screen no
matter what device you're on like figure
out
right figure out the width no matter
what device you're on and by having this
width equals device with your media
queries will work not only on like
desktop laptops it'll also work on
um
on mobile phones and tablets so if
you're ever like making all your media
queries and then like you check it on
your phone and it's not working
make sure you have this viewport okay
now there's one other really important
thing here you notice my initial scale
is set to one that's the zoom level that
you start off with you always pretty
much want to have that at one but there
is this one other thing that you can add
here
and it's it's another
value called user
sorry called user scalable
and you can set it to no
don't
ever do this
what user scalable no does is it stops
people from pinching and zooming and
making your site bigger it stops them
from being able to zoom in on their
content
all right
some people build these really rich
feature full websites it looks great on
the size that they want it to look good
on and they set it to notes that people
can't like mess with that experience
you're screwing over folks that have
some accessibility concerns when viewing
the web about like 10 of users
need to use a very common accessibility
feature which is pinch to zoom
i always ask my students just to pay
attention on the subway if you pay
attention to the subway you're
guaranteed after like a day or two of
paying attention to see someone like
holding their phone close and then
pinching and zooming it's the most
common accessibility feature that we
need and if you turn that off you're
screwing over at least 10 of your users
right so make sure that you never set
user scalable to know and add this meta
viewport to your head of any of your
templates so you don't have to worry
about figuring out different types of
devices and your media queries will just
work
all right
one last thing before we break
take me a minute or two to get through
it
i wanted to show you
the magic
of flexbox
right i wanted to show you the magic of
flexbox we've been using floats
your homework will be asking you to use
floats i need you to practice your
floats but we will move on to flexbox
and we'll see a little bit of grid too i
just want to show it to you just see
just so you could see it right just so
you could see it and see what it does
now the cool thing about flexbox is that
it helps us to figure out um layout in
one dimension right rows or columns and
there's a lot of like little bits of
vocabulary that you need to learn but
once you learn that little bit of
vocabulary you can throw out kind of
needing to know percentages or figuring
out the quick maths you can kind of just
use these words and it'll do it for you
so if you wanted all your stuff to be at
the left hand side you could use flex
start
if you wanted stuff to be centered
instead of putting margin on the left
and right or using some sort of auto you
just say center and it centers it for
you if you want it to have stuff with
space in between instead of doing like
20 20 20 and then figuring out like all
right 20 here 20 here for the gap
instead of having to figure out the
widths
and the gaps for those whiffs right you
would just say space between it would
automatically give you the space between
if you want it space evenly around you
can say space around and so this
wonderful graphic comes from css tricks
complete guide to flexbox it is my
favorite like article
on how to use flexbox and it's now part
of your homework you must read this
article it's a really great introduction
the flexbox
but i want to show you
the power real quick
there's all these cool things that help
us but let me show you something that's
really fun so let's look at an example
here
i have this lovely
flexbox example that's ready to go
let me go ahead and close the template
i'm going to open up the flexbox example
all right
so here's my flexbox example
i have
the html and the css here ready to go
and you'll notice that in my html
i have three sections
uh inside of my main
and i have two sections inside of
something that a section has the class
of bottom
i want all of these sections to have
equal sizing
and sit next to each other
if we were going to do this with floats
i would need to do the quick maths of
figuring out the widths of all of these
the percentages floating them if i
wanted to figure out these ones i would
have to go figure out different
percentages and figure out floating them
next to each other right
but with flex
you don't need to do any quick maths all
right so let me show you
let's go ahead and do our normal setup
like our normal layout here i'm going to
do my header
and my footer
and give them a height
of 100 pixels
right give it a border
uh one pixel
solid black right
and then let's go ahead and do our
sections
so section
let's give them i don't know height like
200 pixels
and we're going to give them a border
uh let's do one pixel solid
black all right
and
[Music]
yeah so that's all of our sections right
so we have all of our sections let's go
ahead and save this let's open this in
the browser
all right we're looking like normal
right we're looking normal here we have
our header we have our footer we have
all of our sections of equal wisp but
they're stacking they're not sitting
next to each other right it's not the
layout that we expect or want to see
if we're doing the old way that floats
we'd have to do all the percentages we
have to float them we have to do
clearing we have to do all this stuff
right
so
the way flex works
as long as the containers are set to
flex
and you tell them how much room you want
each thing to take up it kind of just
works so the two containers we have here
are main
and bottom so i'm going to go ahead and
write a rule here for main and bottom
main
and bottom
i'm just going to give it display flex
and i'm going to tell each section to
kind of just take up one spot
like one spot
flex one there we go so i said all right
main and bottom were flex containers
that's it and take up one spot each
let's save it
let's come back
let's refresh
magic
look at that beautiful magic
look at it
we got
our three sections in main just sitting
nice and neat next to each other
we got our two
sections in the one that was in the the
class of bottom just sitting next to
each other
no percentages
no worrying about clearing or floating
we set the containers to flex we told
them to take up one each and it just
works so
we're working towards this folks we're
working towards this idea that we're
using floats now so that when we're on
the job we don't get into a pickle
but we'll move to flex we'll we'll
unleash the magic of flex and and grid
hopefully that kind of blew your mind a
little bit if you haven't seen uh flex
yet right
and we have some some homework to work
on uh you're gonna read about flex even
though you're not using it until next
week's right we have a lot of stuff
that's assigned this week i don't want
you to use flex on this stuff yeah i
still want to use floats we have to
start reading about flex so we can use
it next week so i want you to read the
complete guide to flexbox
and i want you to
do flexbox froggy
flexbuck froggy is a video game
that just helps you learn flexbox
it's really fun
it doesn't really
doesn't really take too too long to get
through
but it can be a lot of fun just to work
through it
and
then of course the most important thing
is to uh watch independence day for
homework
cool
that's the homework that's coming up
we have more stuff that we're going to
get assigned on thursday on thursday
we're getting assigned a lot of like
building like building actual sites
because now you know html now you know
css now you know how to make things
responsive so
now we got to start practicing right we
got to start building real sites
real websites that that looked like
stuff you would build for a client that
looked like stuff you would build on the
job that's what we're moving to starting
on thursday
also i mentioned this idea of starting a
cs go server well i made one
and i worked with somebody over the
weekend to get it all set up and do all
the fancy things that i wanted to be set
up as
it is a 24 7 office server if you've
never played cs go there is a map called
the office
this server 400 devs is only the office
so
if anybody ever asks you do you go into
the office you can say yes i spent a lot
of time in the 100 devs office i put a
lot of time into the 100 devs office i'm
always hanging out there so this will be
our office now
i gotta test the server i'm not gonna
make an announcement just like after
class like an hour two later from now
i'm gonna share a server link if you
want to come in and test the server with
me it's 64 slots
cs go is completely free to play it can
run on pretty much any device
so yeah i just want to have some a fun
place people that want to game together
we'll have the server i'm going to be
testing it out and then i'm going to
turn off the server and then we'll do
like a bigger release for it so if
you're interested probably like an hour
or two from now i'll share the link uh
we'll play it but for now we have to
raid
and so i'm going to go ahead and set up
the raid
we have someone that's working on react
native and so let's go ahead sprint some
love some positivity
give them a follow if you haven't given
them a follow before remember if you do
the raid
you get uh lovely
channel points which are coming in handy
folks so i hope you had some fun tonight
i hope you learned a lot i know the end
went a little fast
but always come back watch the vod i'll
always share my materials on discord
after
it was really fun starting the idea of
networking together don't worry thursday
we're doing more
thursday we're going to see networking
again we're going to see
all this response in this again this is
not the first this is not the last this
is just the beginning all right folks
have a wonderful rest of the night hope
you all have a good wednesday as well
and i'll see you at class again on
thursday let's read